<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Spectral analysis for nonstationary audio

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.10252v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:01.489352+00:00

## Notes

[1712.10252v3] Spectral analysis for nonstationary audio Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1712.10252v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:1712.10252v3 (eess) [Submitted on 29 Dec 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 23 Aug 2018 (this version, v3)] Title: Spectral analysis for nonstationary audio Authors: Adrien Meynard (I2M), Bruno Torrésani (I2M) View a PDF of the paper titled Spectral analysis for nonstationary audio, by Adrien Meynard (I2M) and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: A new approach for the analysis of nonstationary signals is proposed, with a focus on audio applications. Following earlier contributions, nonstationarity is modeled via stationarity-breaking operators acting on Gaussian stationary random signals. The focus is on time warping and amplitude modulation, and an approximate maximum-likelihood approach based on suitable approximations in the wavelet transform domain is developed. This paper provides theoretical analysis of the approximations, and introduces JEFAS, a corresponding estimation algorithm. The latter is tested and validated on synthetic as well as real audio signal. Comments: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, In press Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD); Statistics Theory (math.ST) Cite as: arXiv:1712.10252 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:1712.10252v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1712.10252 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2018.2862353 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Adrien Meynard [ view email ] [via CCSD proxy] [v1] Fri, 29 Dec 2017 15:12:28 UTC (6,271 KB) [v2] Fri, 8 Jun 2018 12:09:35 UTC (937 KB) [v3] Thu, 23 Aug 2018 13:27:26 UTC (616 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Spectral analysis for nonstationary audio, by Adrien Meynard (I2M) and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess math math.ST stat stat.TH References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
