<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio Decoding by Inverse Problem Solving

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07858v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:08.111520+00:00

## Notes

[2409.07858v1] Audio Decoding by Inverse Problem Solving Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2409.07858v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2409.07858v1 (eess) [Submitted on 12 Sep 2024] Title: Audio Decoding by Inverse Problem Solving Authors: Pedro J. Villasana T. , Lars Villemoes , Janusz Klejsa , Per Hedelin View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Decoding by Inverse Problem Solving, by Pedro J. Villasana T. and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: We consider audio decoding as an inverse problem and solve it through diffusion posterior sampling. Explicit conditioning functions are developed for input signal measurements provided by an example of a transform domain perceptual audio codec. Viability is demonstrated by evaluating arbitrary pairings of a set of bitrates and task-agnostic prior models. For instance, we observe significant improvements on piano while maintaining speech performance when a speech model is replaced by a joint model trained on both speech and piano. With a more general music model, improved decoding compared to legacy methods is obtained for a broad range of content types and bitrates. The noisy mean model, underlying the proposed derivation of conditioning, enables a significant reduction of gradient evaluations for diffusion posterior sampling, compared to methods based on Tweedie's mean. Combining Tweedie's mean with our conditioning functions improves the objective performance. An audio demo is available at this https URL . Comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, audio demo available at this https URL , pre-review version submitted to ICASSP 2025 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2409.07858 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2409.07858v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.07858 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Pedro Jafeth Villasana Tinajero [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 12 Sep 2024 09:05:18 UTC (487 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Decoding by Inverse Problem Solving, by Pedro J. Villasana T. and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
