<!-- source_type: articles -->
# On the Signal Processing Operations in LIGO signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1711.07421v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:35.703131+00:00

## Notes

[1711.07421v3] On the Signal Processing Operations in LIGO signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1711.07421v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1711.07421v3 (eess) [Submitted on 20 Nov 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 12 Mar 2018 (this version, v3)] Title: On the Signal Processing Operations in LIGO signals Authors: Akhila Raman View a PDF of the paper titled On the Signal Processing Operations in LIGO signals, by Akhila Raman View PDF Abstract: This article analyzes the data for the five gravitational wave (GW) events detected in Hanford(H1), Livingston(L1) and Virgo(V1) detectors by the LIGO collaboration. It is shown that GW170814, GW170817, GW151226 and GW170104 are very weak signals whose amplitude does not rise significantly during the GW event, and they are indistinguishable from non-stationary detector noise. LIGO software implements cross-correlation funcion(CCF) of H1/L1 signals with the template reference signal, in frequency domain, in a matched filter, using 32 second windows. It is shown that this matched filter misfires with high SNR/CCF peaks, even for very low-amplitude, short bursts of sine wave signals and additive white gaussian noise(AWGN), all the time. It is shown that this erratic behaviour of the matched filter, is due to the error in signal processing operations, such as lack of cyclic prefix necessary to account for circular convolution. It is also shown that normalized CCF method implemented in time domain using short windows, does not have false CCF peaks for sine wave and noise bursts. It is shown that the normalized CCF for GW151226 and GW170104, when correlating H1/L1 and template, is indistinguishable from correlating detector noise and the template. It is also shown that the normalized CCF for GW151226 and GW170104, when correlating H1/L1 and template, is indistinguishable from correlating H1/L1 and bogus chirp templates which are frequency modulated(FM) waveforms which differ significantly from ideal templates. Similar results are shown with LIGO matched filter, which misfires with high Signal to Noise Ratio(SNR) for bogus chirp templates. Comments: Corrected typographical errors, updated names, references and acknowledgement section. Added a subsection on an improved whitening procedure Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM) Cite as: arXiv:1711.07421 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1711.07421v3 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1711.07421 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 2018 IEEE Global Conference on Signal and Information Processing (GlobalSIP). https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8646464 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/GlobalSIP.2018.8646464 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Akhila Raman [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 20 Nov 2017 17:24:10 UTC (4,847 KB) [v2] Tue, 21 Nov 2017 05:19:55 UTC (4,847 KB) [v3] Mon, 12 Mar 2018 15:57:25 UTC (5,266 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled On the Signal Processing Operations in LIGO signals, by Akhila Raman View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-11 Change to browse by: astro-ph astro-ph.IM eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
