<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Investigating Design Choices in Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures for General Audio Representation Learning

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.08679v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:45.916167+00:00

## Notes

[2405.08679v1] Investigating Design Choices in Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures for General Audio Representation Learning Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2405.08679v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2405.08679v1 (cs) [Submitted on 14 May 2024] Title: Investigating Design Choices in Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures for General Audio Representation Learning Authors: Alain Riou , Stefan Lattner , Gaëtan Hadjeres , Geoffroy Peeters View a PDF of the paper titled Investigating Design Choices in Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures for General Audio Representation Learning, by Alain Riou and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of self-supervised general-purpose audio representation learning. We explore the use of Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures (JEPA) for this task, which consists of splitting an input mel-spectrogram into two parts (context and target), computing neural representations for each, and training the neural network to predict the target representations from the context representations. We investigate several design choices within this framework and study their influence through extensive experiments by evaluating our models on various audio classification benchmarks, including environmental sounds, speech and music downstream tasks. We focus notably on which part of the input data is used as context or target and show experimentally that it significantly impacts the model's quality. In particular, we notice that some effective design choices in the image domain lead to poor performance on audio, thus highlighting major differences between these two modalities. Comments: Self-supervision in Audio, Speech and Beyond workshop, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 2024 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2405.08679 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2405.08679v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.08679 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Alain Riou [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 14 May 2024 15:00:09 UTC (167 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Investigating Design Choices in Joint-Embedding Predictive Architectures for General Audio Representation Learning, by Alain Riou and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
