<!-- source_type: articles -->
# An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Joint Communication and Radar Sensing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.12780v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:16.927070+00:00

## Notes

[2102.12780v1] An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Joint Communication and Radar Sensing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2102.12780v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2102.12780v1 (eess) [Submitted on 25 Feb 2021] Title: An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Joint Communication and Radar Sensing Authors: J. Andrew Zhang , Fan Liu , Christos Masouros , Robert W. Heath Jr. , Zhiyong Feng , Le Zheng , Athina Petropulu View a PDF of the paper titled An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Joint Communication and Radar Sensing, by J. Andrew Zhang and 6 other authors View PDF Abstract: Joint communication and radar sensing (JCR) represents an emerging research field aiming to integrate the above two functionalities into a single system, sharing a majority of hardware and signal processing modules and, in a typical case, sharing a single transmitted signal. It is recognised as a key approach in significantly improving spectrum efficiency, reducing device size, cost and power consumption, and improving performance thanks to potential close cooperation of the two functions. Advanced signal processing techniques are critical for making the integration efficient, from transmission signal design to receiver processing. This paper provides a comprehensive overview of JCR systems from the signal processing perspective, with a focus on state-of-the-art. A balanced coverage on both transmitter and receiver is provided for three types of JCR systems, communication-centric, radar-centric, and joint design and optimization. Comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, journal Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2102.12780 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2102.12780v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.12780 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/JSTSP.2021.3113120 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: J. Andrew Zhang [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 25 Feb 2021 10:55:02 UTC (2,452 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Joint Communication and Radar Sensing, by J. Andrew Zhang and 6 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-02 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
