<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Spectral Domain Sampling of Graph Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05147v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:55.356470+00:00

## Notes

[1706.05147v3] Spectral Domain Sampling of Graph Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1706.05147v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1706.05147v3 (cs) [Submitted on 16 Jun 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 17 May 2018 (this version, v3)] Title: Spectral Domain Sampling of Graph Signals Authors: Yuichi Tanaka View a PDF of the paper titled Spectral Domain Sampling of Graph Signals, by Yuichi Tanaka View PDF Abstract: Sampling methods for graph signals in the graph spectral domain are presented. Though conventional sampling of graph signals can be regarded as sampling in the graph vertex domain, it does not have the desired characteristics in regard to the graph spectral domain. With the proposed methods, the down- and upsampled graph signals inherit the frequency domain characteristics of the sampled signals defined in the time/spatial domain. The properties of the sampling effects were evaluated theoretically in comparison with those obtained with the conventional sampling method in the vertex domain. Various examples of signals on simple graphs enable precise understanding of the problem considered. Fractional sampling and Laplacian pyramid representation of graph signals are potential applications of these methods. Comments: accepted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1706.05147 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1706.05147v3 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1706.05147 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Trans. on Signal Processing, vol. 66, no. 14, pp. 3752-3767, 2018 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2018.2839620 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Yuichi Tanaka [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 16 Jun 2017 05:30:29 UTC (3,288 KB) [v2] Thu, 4 Jan 2018 02:48:41 UTC (3,721 KB) [v3] Thu, 17 May 2018 10:47:04 UTC (3,899 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Spectral Domain Sampling of Graph Signals, by Yuichi Tanaka View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-06 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Yuichi Tanaka export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
