<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio Deepfake Perceptions in College Going Populations

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2112.03351v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:09.026838+00:00

## Notes

[2112.03351v1] Audio Deepfake Perceptions in College Going Populations Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2112.03351v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2112.03351v1 (cs) [Submitted on 6 Dec 2021] Title: Audio Deepfake Perceptions in College Going Populations Authors: Gabrielle Watson , Zahra Khanjani , Vandana P. Janeja View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Deepfake Perceptions in College Going Populations, by Gabrielle Watson and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Deepfake is content or material that is generated or manipulated using AI methods, to pass off as real. There are four different deepfake types: audio, video, image and text. In this research we focus on audio deepfakes and how people perceive it. There are several audio deepfake generation frameworks, but we chose MelGAN which is a non-autoregressive and fast audio deepfake generating framework, requiring fewer parameters. This study tries to assess audio deepfake perceptions among college students from different majors. This study also answers the question of how their background and major can affect their perception towards AI generated deepfakes. We also analyzed the results based on different aspects of: grade level, complexity of the grammar used in the audio clips, length of the audio clips, those who knew the term deepfakes and those who did not, as well as the political angle. It is interesting that the results show when an audio clip has a political connotation, it can affect what people think about whether it is real or fake, even if the content is fairly similar. This study also explores the question of how background and major can affect perception towards deepfakes. Comments: Summary of study findings Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2112.03351 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2112.03351v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2112.03351 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Vandana Janeja [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 6 Dec 2021 20:53:41 UTC (340 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Deepfake Perceptions in College Going Populations, by Gabrielle Watson and 2 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
