<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Graph Signal Processing: Vertex Multiplication

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2007.04723v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:06.390083+00:00

## Notes

[2007.04723v1] Graph Signal Processing: Vertex Multiplication Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2007.04723v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2007.04723v1 (eess) [Submitted on 9 Jul 2020] Title: Graph Signal Processing: Vertex Multiplication Authors: Aykut Koç , Yigit E. Bayiz View a PDF of the paper titled Graph Signal Processing: Vertex Multiplication, by Aykut Ko\c{c} and Yigit E. Bayiz View PDF Abstract: On the Euclidean domains of classical signal processing, linking of signal samples to the underlying coordinate structure is straightforward. While graph adjacency matrices totally define the quantitative associations among the underlying graph vertices, a major problem in graph signal processing is the lack of explicit association of vertices with an underlying quantitative coordinate structure. To make this link, we propose an operation, called the vertex multiplication, which is defined for graphs and can operate on graph signals. Vertex multiplication, which generalizes the coordinate multiplication operation in time series signals, can be interpreted as an operator which assigns a coordinate structure to a graph. By using the graph domain extension of differentiation and graph Fourier transform (GFT), vertex multiplication is defined such that it shows Fourier duality, which states that differentiation and coordinate multiplication operations are duals of each other under Fourier transformation (FT). The proposed definition is shown to reduce to coordinate multiplication for graphs corresponding to time series. Numerical examples are also presented. Comments: 9 pages, 2 figures Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2007.04723 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2007.04723v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2007.04723 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Letters 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/LSP.2021.3086391 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Aykut Koc [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 9 Jul 2020 11:51:19 UTC (179 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Graph Signal Processing: Vertex Multiplication, by Aykut Ko\c{c} and Yigit E. Bayiz View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-07 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
