<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Expanding on EnCLAP with Auxiliary Retrieval Model for Automated Audio Captioning

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01160v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:17.189938+00:00

## Notes

[2409.01160v1] Expanding on EnCLAP with Auxiliary Retrieval Model for Automated Audio Captioning Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2409.01160v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2409.01160v1 (eess) [Submitted on 2 Sep 2024] Title: Expanding on EnCLAP with Auxiliary Retrieval Model for Automated Audio Captioning Authors: Jaeyeon Kim , Jaeyoon Jung , Minjeong Jeon , Sang Hoon Woo , Jinjoo Lee View a PDF of the paper titled Expanding on EnCLAP with Auxiliary Retrieval Model for Automated Audio Captioning, by Jaeyeon Kim and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: In this technical report, we describe our submission to DCASE2024 Challenge Task6 (Automated Audio Captioning) and Task8 (Language-based Audio Retrieval). We develop our approach building upon the EnCLAP audio captioning framework and optimizing it for Task6 of the challenge. Notably, we outline the changes in the underlying components and the incorporation of the reranking process. Additionally, we submit a supplementary retriever model, a byproduct of our modified framework, to Task8. Our proposed systems achieve FENSE score of 0.542 on Task6 and mAP@10 score of 0.386 on Task8, significantly outperforming the baseline models. Comments: DCASE2024 Challenge Technical Report. Ranked 2nd in Task 6 Automated Audio Captioning Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2409.01160 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2409.01160v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.01160 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jaeyeon Kim [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 2 Sep 2024 10:47:07 UTC (37 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Expanding on EnCLAP with Auxiliary Retrieval Model for Automated Audio Captioning, by Jaeyeon Kim and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
