<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Dorabella Cipher as Musical Inspiration

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.17950v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:27.180512+00:00

## Notes

[2509.17950v1] Dorabella Cipher as Musical Inspiration Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2509.17950v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:2509.17950v1 (cs) [Submitted on 22 Sep 2025] Title: Dorabella Cipher as Musical Inspiration Authors: Bradley Hauer , Colin Choi , Abram Hindle , Scott Smallwood , Grzegorz Kondrak View a PDF of the paper titled Dorabella Cipher as Musical Inspiration, by Bradley Hauer and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The Dorabella cipher is an encrypted note written by English composer Edward Elgar, which has defied decipherment attempts for more than a century. While most proposed solutions are English texts, we investigate the hypothesis that Dorabella represents enciphered music. We weigh the evidence for and against the hypothesis, devise a simplified music notation, and attempt to reconstruct a melody from the cipher. Our tools are n-gram models of music which we validate on existing music corpora enciphered using monoalphabetic substitution. By applying our methods to Dorabella, we produce a decipherment with musical qualities, which is then transformed via artful composition into a listenable melody. Far from arguing that the end result represents the only true solution, we instead frame the process of decipherment as part of the composition process. Comments: Published in Proceedings of the Workshop on Speech and Music Processing 2021 Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) Cite as: arXiv:2509.17950 [cs.CL] (or arXiv:2509.17950v1 [cs.CL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2509.17950 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Bradley Hauer, Colin Choi, Abram Hindle, Scott Smallwood, and Grzegorz Kondrak. 2021. Dorabella Cipher as Musical Inspiration. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Speech and Music Processing 2021 Submission history From: Bradley Hauer [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 22 Sep 2025 16:09:26 UTC (133 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Dorabella Cipher as Musical Inspiration, by Bradley Hauer and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CL < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-09 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
