<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Review of Machine Learning Techniques for Applied Eye Fundus and Tongue Digital Image Processing with Diabetes Management System

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2012.15025v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:24.392918+00:00

## Notes

[2012.15025v1] A Review of Machine Learning Techniques for Applied Eye Fundus and Tongue Digital Image Processing with Diabetes Management System Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2012.15025v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Image and Video Processing arXiv:2012.15025v1 (eess) [Submitted on 30 Dec 2020] Title: A Review of Machine Learning Techniques for Applied Eye Fundus and Tongue Digital Image Processing with Diabetes Management System Authors: Wei Xiang Lim , Zhiyuan Chen , Amr Ahmed , Tissa Chandesa , Iman Liao View a PDF of the paper titled A Review of Machine Learning Techniques for Applied Eye Fundus and Tongue Digital Image Processing with Diabetes Management System, by Wei Xiang Lim and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Diabetes is a global epidemic and it is increasing at an alarming rate. The International Diabetes Federation (IDF) projected that the total number of people with diabetes globally may increase by 48%, from 425 million (year 2017) to 629 million (year 2045). Moreover, diabetes had caused millions of deaths and the number is increasing drastically. Therefore, this paper addresses the background of diabetes and its complications. In addition, this paper investigates innovative applications and past researches in the areas of diabetes management system with applied eye fundus and tongue digital images. Different types of existing applied eye fundus and tongue digital image processing with diabetes management systems in the market and state-of-the-art machine learning techniques from previous literature have been reviewed. The implication of this paper is to have an overview in diabetic research and what new machine learning techniques can be proposed in solving this global epidemic. Comments: This paper is published in The International Conference on Digital Image and Signal Processing (DISP 2019)At: Oxford, United Kingdom Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) Cite as: arXiv:2012.15025 [eess.IV] (or arXiv:2012.15025v1 [eess.IV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2012.15025 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Zhiyuan Chen Dr [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 30 Dec 2020 03:49:37 UTC (163 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Review of Machine Learning Techniques for Applied Eye Fundus and Tongue Digital Image Processing with Diabetes Management System, by Wei Xiang Lim and 3 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.IV < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
