<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Comparative Study of State-based Neural Networks for Virtual Analog Audio Effects Modeling

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.04124v6
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:35.980376+00:00

## Notes

[2405.04124v6] Comparative Study of State-based Neural Networks for Virtual Analog Audio Effects Modeling Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2405.04124v6 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2405.04124v6 (cs) [Submitted on 7 May 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 6 Aug 2025 (this version, v6)] Title: Comparative Study of State-based Neural Networks for Virtual Analog Audio Effects Modeling Authors: Riccardo Simionato , Stefano Fasciani View a PDF of the paper titled Comparative Study of State-based Neural Networks for Virtual Analog Audio Effects Modeling, by Riccardo Simionato and Stefano Fasciani View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Artificial neural networks are a promising technique for virtual analog modeling, having shown particular success in emulating distortion circuits. Despite their potential, enhancements are needed to enable effect parameters to influence the network's response and to achieve a low-latency output. While hybrid solutions, which incorporate both analytical and black-box techniques, offer certain advantages, black-box approaches, such as neural networks, can be preferable in contexts where rapid deployment, simplicity, or adaptability are required, and where understanding the internal mechanisms of the system is less critical. In this article, we explore the application of recent machine learning advancements for virtual analog modeling. We compare State-Space models and Linear Recurrent Units against the more common LSTM networks, with a variety of audio effects. We evaluate the performance and limitations of these models using multiple metrics, providing insights for future research and development. Our metrics aim to assess the models' ability to accurately replicate the signal's energy and frequency contents, with a particular focus on transients. The Feature-wise Linear Modulation method is employed to incorporate effect parameters that influence the network's response, enabling dynamic adaptability based on specified conditions. Experimental results suggest that LSTM networks offer an advantage in emulating distortions and equalizers, although performance differences are sometimes subtle yet statistically significant. On the other hand, encoder-decoder configurations of Long Short-Term Memory networks and State-Space models excel in modeling saturation and compression, effectively managing the dynamic aspects inherent in these effects. However, no models effectively emulate the low-pass filter, and Linear Recurrent Units show inconsistent performance across various audio effects. Comments: In EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing 2025 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI) Cite as: arXiv:2405.04124 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2405.04124v6 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.04124 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing. ISSN 1687-4714. 2025(1), p. 1-17 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1186/s13636-025-00416-3 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Riccardo Simionato [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 7 May 2024 08:47:40 UTC (2,867 KB) [v2] Wed, 8 May 2024 10:35:02 UTC (1,959 KB) [v3] Sat, 10 Aug 2024 14:17:50 UTC (2,731 KB) [v4] Thu, 22 Aug 2024 17:25:30 UTC (1,083 KB) [v5] Thu, 29 Aug 2024 09:44:59 UTC (1,083 KB) [v6] Wed, 6 Aug 2025 08:29:21 UTC (1,007 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Comparative Study of State-based Neural Networks for Virtual Analog Audio Effects Modeling, by Riccardo Simionato and Stefano Fasciani View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
