<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Representing Digital Assets using MPEG-21 Digital Item Declaration

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0508065v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:14.765808+00:00

## Notes

[cs/0508065v1] Representing Digital Assets using MPEG-21 Digital Item Declaration Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:cs/0508065v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Digital Libraries arXiv:cs/0508065v1 (cs) [Submitted on 13 Aug 2005] Title: Representing Digital Assets using MPEG-21 Digital Item Declaration Authors: Jeroen Bekaert , Herbert Van de Sompel View a PDF of the paper titled Representing Digital Assets using MPEG-21 Digital Item Declaration, by Jeroen Bekaert and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Various XML-based approaches aimed at representing compound digital assets have emerged over the last several years. Approaches that are of specific relevance to the digital library community include the Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard (METS), the IMS Content Packaging XML Binding, and the XML Formatted Data Units (XFDU) developed by CCSDS Panel 2. The MPEG-21 Digital Item Declaration (MPEG-21 DID) is another standard specifying the representation of digital assets in XML that, so far, has received little attention in the digital library community. This article gives a brief insight into the MPEG-21 standardization effort, highlights the major characteristics of the MPEG-21 DID Abstract Model, and describes the MPEG-21 Digital Item Declaration Language (MPEG-21 DIDL), an XML syntax for the representation of digital assets based on the MPEG-21 DID Abstract Model. Also, it briefly demonstrates the potential relevance of MPEG-21 DID to the digital library community by describing its use in the aDORe repository environment at the Research Library of the Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) for the representation of digital assets. Comments: 27 pages, accepted submission to the special edition on complex objects of the International Journal on Digital Libraries Subjects: Digital Libraries (cs.DL) ; Hardware Architecture (cs.AR) Cite as: arXiv:cs/0508065 [cs.DL] (or arXiv:cs/0508065v1 [cs.DL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.cs/0508065 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Herbert van de Sompel [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 13 Aug 2005 03:09:25 UTC (451 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Representing Digital Assets using MPEG-21 Digital Item Declaration, by Jeroen Bekaert and 1 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.DL < prev | next > new | recent | 2005-08 References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Jeroen Bekaert Herbert Van de Sompel export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
