<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signal Processing for Gigabit-Rate Wireline Communications

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03538v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:46.002030+00:00

## Notes

[1706.03538v1] Signal Processing for Gigabit-Rate Wireline Communications Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1706.03538v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1706.03538v1 (cs) [Submitted on 12 Jun 2017] Title: Signal Processing for Gigabit-Rate Wireline Communications Authors: S.M.Zafaruddin , Itsik Bergel , Amir Leshem View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing for Gigabit-Rate Wireline Communications, by S.M.Zafaruddin and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Signal processing played an important role in improving the quality of communications over copper cables in earlier DSL technologies. Even more powerful signal processing techniques are required to enable a gigabit per second data rate in the upcoming this http URL standard. This new standard is different from its predecessors in many respects. In particular, this http URL will use a significantly higher bandwidth. At such a high bandwidth, crosstalk between different lines in a binder will reach unprecedented levels, which are beyond the capabilities of most efficient techniques for interference mitigation. In this article, we survey the state of the art and research challenges in the design of signal processing algorithms for the this http URL system, with a focus on novel research approaches and design considerations for efficient interference mitigation in this http URL systems. We also detail relevant VDSL techniques and points out their strengths and limitations for the this http URL system. Comments: 20 pages, Accepted for publication in the IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, May 2017 Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1706.03538 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1706.03538v1 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1706.03538 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: S.M. Zafaruddin [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 12 Jun 2017 09:50:57 UTC (1,852 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing for Gigabit-Rate Wireline Communications, by S.M.Zafaruddin and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-06 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex S. M. Zafaruddin Itsik Bergel Amir Leshem export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
