<!-- source_type: articles -->
# NEUROSEC: FPGA-Based Neuromorphic Audio Security

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12055v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:04.047818+00:00

## Notes

[2401.12055v1] NEUROSEC: FPGA-Based Neuromorphic Audio Security Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2401.12055v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Cryptography and Security arXiv:2401.12055v1 (cs) [Submitted on 22 Jan 2024] Title: NEUROSEC: FPGA-Based Neuromorphic Audio Security Authors: Murat Isik , Hiruna Vishwamith , Yusuf Sur , Kayode Inadagbo , I. Can Dikmen View a PDF of the paper titled NEUROSEC: FPGA-Based Neuromorphic Audio Security, by Murat Isik and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Neuromorphic systems, inspired by the complexity and functionality of the human brain, have gained interest in academic and industrial attention due to their unparalleled potential across a wide range of applications. While their capabilities herald innovation, it is imperative to underscore that these computational paradigms, analogous to their traditional counterparts, are not impervious to security threats. Although the exploration of neuromorphic methodologies for image and video processing has been rigorously pursued, the realm of neuromorphic audio processing remains in its early stages. Our results highlight the robustness and precision of our FPGA-based neuromorphic system. Specifically, our system showcases a commendable balance between desired signal and background noise, efficient spike rate encoding, and unparalleled resilience against adversarial attacks such as FGSM and PGD. A standout feature of our framework is its detection rate of 94%, which, when compared to other methodologies, underscores its greater capability in identifying and mitigating threats within 5.39 dB, a commendable SNR ratio. Furthermore, neuromorphic computing and hardware security serve many sensor domains in mission-critical and privacy-preserving applications. Comments: Audio processing, FPGA, Hardware Security, Neuromorphic Computing Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR) ; Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2401.12055 [cs.CR] (or arXiv:2401.12055v1 [cs.CR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.12055 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Hiruna Vishwamith [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 15:47:05 UTC (4,739 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled NEUROSEC: FPGA-Based Neuromorphic Audio Security, by Murat Isik and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CR < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.ET cs.LG cs.NE cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
