<!-- source_type: articles -->
# DeLoRes: Decorrelating Latent Spaces for Low-Resource Audio Representation Learning

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.13628v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:28.696734+00:00

## Notes

[2203.13628v3] DeLoRes: Decorrelating Latent Spaces for Low-Resource Audio Representation Learning Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2203.13628v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2203.13628v3 (cs) [Submitted on 25 Mar 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 26 Jun 2022 (this version, v3)] Title: DeLoRes: Decorrelating Latent Spaces for Low-Resource Audio Representation Learning Authors: Sreyan Ghosh , Ashish Seth , and Deepak Mittal , Maneesh Singh , S. Umesh View a PDF of the paper titled DeLoRes: Decorrelating Latent Spaces for Low-Resource Audio Representation Learning, by Sreyan Ghosh and Ashish Seth and and Deepak Mittal and Maneesh Singh and S. Umesh View PDF Abstract: Inspired by the recent progress in self-supervised learning for computer vision, in this paper we introduce DeLoRes, a new general-purpose audio representation learning approach. Our main objective is to make our network learn representations in a resource-constrained setting (both data and compute), that can generalize well across a diverse set of downstream tasks. Inspired from the Barlow Twins objective function, we propose to learn embeddings that are invariant to distortions of an input audio sample, while making sure that they contain non-redundant information about the sample. To achieve this, we measure the cross-correlation matrix between the outputs of two identical networks fed with distorted versions of an audio segment sampled from an audio file and make it as close to the identity matrix as possible. We use a combination of a small subset of the large-scale AudioSet dataset and FSD50K for self-supervised learning and are able to learn with less than half the parameters compared to state-of-the-art algorithms. For evaluation, we transfer these learned representations to 9 downstream classification tasks, including speech, music, and animal sounds, and show competitive results under different evaluation setups. In addition to being simple and intuitive, our pre-training algorithm is amenable to compute through its inherent nature of construction and does not require careful implementation details to avoid trivial or degenerate solutions. Furthermore, we conduct ablation studies on our results and make all our code and pre-trained models publicly available this https URL . Comments: Accepted to AAAI 2022 workshop on Self-supervised Learning for Audio and Speech Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2203.13628 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2203.13628v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2203.13628 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sreyan Ghosh [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 25 Mar 2022 12:59:55 UTC (28,811 KB) [v2] Wed, 13 Apr 2022 18:16:01 UTC (28,813 KB) [v3] Sun, 26 Jun 2022 05:59:55 UTC (24,501 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled DeLoRes: Decorrelating Latent Spaces for Low-Resource Audio Representation Learning, by Sreyan Ghosh and Ashish Seth and and Deepak Mittal and Maneesh Singh and S. Umesh View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-03 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
