<!-- source_type: articles -->
# AudioLDM 2: Learning Holistic Audio Generation with Self-supervised Pretraining

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.05734v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:23.175710+00:00

## Notes

[2308.05734v3] AudioLDM 2: Learning Holistic Audio Generation with Self-supervised Pretraining Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2308.05734v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2308.05734v3 (cs) [Submitted on 10 Aug 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 11 May 2024 (this version, v3)] Title: AudioLDM 2: Learning Holistic Audio Generation with Self-supervised Pretraining Authors: Haohe Liu , Yi Yuan , Xubo Liu , Xinhao Mei , Qiuqiang Kong , Qiao Tian , Yuping Wang , Wenwu Wang , Yuxuan Wang , Mark D. Plumbley View a PDF of the paper titled AudioLDM 2: Learning Holistic Audio Generation with Self-supervised Pretraining, by Haohe Liu and 9 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Although audio generation shares commonalities across different types of audio, such as speech, music, and sound effects, designing models for each type requires careful consideration of specific objectives and biases that can significantly differ from those of other types. To bring us closer to a unified perspective of audio generation, this paper proposes a framework that utilizes the same learning method for speech, music, and sound effect generation. Our framework introduces a general representation of audio, called "language of audio" (LOA). Any audio can be translated into LOA based on AudioMAE, a self-supervised pre-trained representation learning model. In the generation process, we translate any modalities into LOA by using a GPT-2 model, and we perform self-supervised audio generation learning with a latent diffusion model conditioned on LOA. The proposed framework naturally brings advantages such as in-context learning abilities and reusable self-supervised pretrained AudioMAE and latent diffusion models. Experiments on the major benchmarks of text-to-audio, text-to-music, and text-to-speech demonstrate state-of-the-art or competitive performance against previous approaches. Our code, pretrained model, and demo are available at this https URL . Comments: Accepted by IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing. Project page is this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2308.05734 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2308.05734v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.05734 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Haohe Liu [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 10 Aug 2023 17:55:13 UTC (9,939 KB) [v2] Sat, 9 Sep 2023 15:33:19 UTC (20,322 KB) [v3] Sat, 11 May 2024 11:24:51 UTC (20,332 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled AudioLDM 2: Learning Holistic Audio Generation with Self-supervised Pretraining, by Haohe Liu and 9 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.MM eess eess.AS eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
