<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Experimental Investigation of Deep Learning for Digital Signal Processing in Short Reach Optical Fiber Communications

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2005.08790v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:41.490589+00:00

## Notes

[2005.08790v1] Experimental Investigation of Deep Learning for Digital Signal Processing in Short Reach Optical Fiber Communications Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2005.08790v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2005.08790v1 (eess) [Submitted on 18 May 2020] Title: Experimental Investigation of Deep Learning for Digital Signal Processing in Short Reach Optical Fiber Communications Authors: Boris Karanov , Mathieu Chagnon , Vahid Aref , Filipe Ferreira , Domanic Lavery , Polina Bayvel , Laurent Schmalen View a PDF of the paper titled Experimental Investigation of Deep Learning for Digital Signal Processing in Short Reach Optical Fiber Communications, by Boris Karanov and 6 other authors View PDF Abstract: We investigate methods for experimental performance enhancement of auto-encoders based on a recurrent neural network (RNN) for communication over dispersive nonlinear channels. In particular, our focus is on the recently proposed sliding window bidirectional RNN (SBRNN) optical fiber autoencoder. We show that adjusting the processing window in the sequence estimation algorithm at the receiver improves the reach of simple systems trained on a channel model and applied "as is" to the transmission link. Moreover, the collected experimental data was used to optimize the receiver neural network parameters, allowing to transmit 42 Gb/s with bit-error rate (BER) below the 6.7% hard-decision forward error correction threshold at distances up to 70km as well as 84 Gb/s at 20 km. The investigation of digital signal processing (DSP) optimized on experimental data is extended to pulse amplitude modulation with receivers performing sliding window sequence estimation using a feed-forward or a recurrent neural network as well as classical nonlinear Volterra equalization. Our results show that, for fixed algorithm memory, the DSP based on deep learning achieves an improved BER performance, allowing to increase the reach of the system. Comments: Invited paper at the IEEE International Workshop on Signal Processing Systems (SiPS) 2020 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT); Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:2005.08790 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2005.08790v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2005.08790 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Laurent Schmalen [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 18 May 2020 15:09:41 UTC (519 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Experimental Investigation of Deep Learning for Digital Signal Processing in Short Reach Optical Fiber Communications, by Boris Karanov and 6 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT cs.LG eess math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
