<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Can Large Language Models Predict Audio Effects Parameters from Natural Language?

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.20770v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:41.968120+00:00

## Notes

[2505.20770v2] Can Large Language Models Predict Audio Effects Parameters from Natural Language? Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2505.20770v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2505.20770v2 (cs) [Submitted on 27 May 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 17 Jul 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Can Large Language Models Predict Audio Effects Parameters from Natural Language? Authors: Seungheon Doh , Junghyun Koo , Marco A. Martínez-Ramírez , Wei-Hsiang Liao , Juhan Nam , Yuki Mitsufuji View a PDF of the paper titled Can Large Language Models Predict Audio Effects Parameters from Natural Language?, by Seungheon Doh and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: In music production, manipulating audio effects (Fx) parameters through natural language has the potential to reduce technical barriers for non-experts. We present LLM2Fx, a framework leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) to predict Fx parameters directly from textual descriptions without requiring task-specific training or fine-tuning. Our approach address the text-to-effect parameter prediction (Text2Fx) task by mapping natural language descriptions to the corresponding Fx parameters for equalization and reverberation. We demonstrate that LLMs can generate Fx parameters in a zero-shot manner that elucidates the relationship between timbre semantics and audio effects in music production. To enhance performance, we introduce three types of in-context examples: audio Digital Signal Processing (DSP) features, DSP function code, and few-shot examples. Our results demonstrate that LLM-based Fx parameter generation outperforms previous optimization approaches, offering competitive performance in translating natural language descriptions to appropriate Fx settings. Furthermore, LLMs can serve as text-driven interfaces for audio production, paving the way for more intuitive and accessible music production tools. Comments: Accepted for publication at The IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2505.20770 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2505.20770v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.20770 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: SeungHeon Doh [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 27 May 2025 06:21:56 UTC (221 KB) [v2] Thu, 17 Jul 2025 10:10:45 UTC (220 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Can Large Language Models Predict Audio Effects Parameters from Natural Language?, by Seungheon Doh and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
