<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Raw Waveform-based Audio Classification Using Sample-level CNN Architectures

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.00866v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:35.889325+00:00

## Notes

[1712.00866v1] Raw Waveform-based Audio Classification Using Sample-level CNN Architectures Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1712.00866v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1712.00866v1 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Dec 2017] Title: Raw Waveform-based Audio Classification Using Sample-level CNN Architectures Authors: Jongpil Lee , Taejun Kim , Jiyoung Park , Juhan Nam View a PDF of the paper titled Raw Waveform-based Audio Classification Using Sample-level CNN Architectures, by Jongpil Lee and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Music, speech, and acoustic scene sound are often handled separately in the audio domain because of their different signal characteristics. However, as the image domain grows rapidly by versatile image classification models, it is necessary to study extensible classification models in the audio domain as well. In this study, we approach this problem using two types of sample-level deep convolutional neural networks that take raw waveforms as input and uses filters with small granularity. One is a basic model that consists of convolution and pooling layers. The other is an improved model that additionally has residual connections, squeeze-and-excitation modules and multi-level concatenation. We show that the sample-level models reach state-of-the-art performance levels for the three different categories of sound. Also, we visualize the filters along layers and compare the characteristics of learned filters. Comments: NIPS, Machine Learning for Audio Signal Processing Workshop (ML4Audio), 2017 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1712.00866 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1712.00866v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1712.00866 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jongpil Lee [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 4 Dec 2017 00:58:58 UTC (461 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Raw Waveform-based Audio Classification Using Sample-level CNN Architectures, by Jongpil Lee and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Jongpil Lee Taejun Kim Jiyoung Park Juhan Nam export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
