<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Hybrid noise shaping for audio coding using perfectly overlapped window

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12566v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:31.413345+00:00

## Notes

[2308.12566v1] Hybrid noise shaping for audio coding using perfectly overlapped window Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2308.12566v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2308.12566v1 (eess) [Submitted on 24 Aug 2023] Title: Hybrid noise shaping for audio coding using perfectly overlapped window Authors: Byeongho Jo , Seungkwon Beack View a PDF of the paper titled Hybrid noise shaping for audio coding using perfectly overlapped window, by Byeongho Jo and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: In recent years, audio coding technology has been standardized based on several frameworks that incorporate linear predictive coding (LPC). However, coding the transient signal using frequency-domain LP residual signals remains a challenge. To address this, temporal noise shaping (TNS) can be adapted, although it cannot be effectively operated since the estimated temporal envelope in the modified discrete cosine transform (MDCT) domain is accompanied by the time-domain aliasing (TDA) terms. In this study, we propose the modulated complex lapped transform-based coding framework integrated with transform coded excitation (TCX) and complex LPC-based TNS (CTNS). Our approach uses a 50\% overlap window and switching scheme for the CTNS to improve the coding efficiency. Additionally, an adaptive calculation of the target bits for the sub-bands using the frequency envelope information based on the quantized LPC coefficients is proposed. To minimize the quantization mismatch between both modes, an integrated quantization for real and complex values and a TDA augmentation method that compensates for the artificially generated TDA components during switching operations are proposed. The proposed coding framework shows a superior performance in both objective metrics and subjective listening tests, thereby demonstrating its low bit-rate audio coding. Comments: accepted to WASPAA (IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics) 2023 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2308.12566 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2308.12566v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.12566 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Byeongho Jo Dr. [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 24 Aug 2023 05:12:33 UTC (1,432 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Hybrid noise shaping for audio coding using perfectly overlapped window, by Byeongho Jo and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
