<!-- source_type: articles -->
# MusCaps: Generating Captions for Music Audio

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2104.11984v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:05.496814+00:00

## Notes

[2104.11984v1] MusCaps: Generating Captions for Music Audio Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2104.11984v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2104.11984v1 (cs) [Submitted on 24 Apr 2021] Title: MusCaps: Generating Captions for Music Audio Authors: Ilaria Manco , Emmanouil Benetos , Elio Quinton , Gyorgy Fazekas View a PDF of the paper titled MusCaps: Generating Captions for Music Audio, by Ilaria Manco and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Content-based music information retrieval has seen rapid progress with the adoption of deep learning. Current approaches to high-level music description typically make use of classification models, such as in auto-tagging or genre and mood classification. In this work, we propose to address music description via audio captioning, defined as the task of generating a natural language description of music audio content in a human-like manner. To this end, we present the first music audio captioning model, MusCaps, consisting of an encoder-decoder with temporal attention. Our method combines convolutional and recurrent neural network architectures to jointly process audio-text inputs through a multimodal encoder and leverages pre-training on audio data to obtain representations that effectively capture and summarise musical features in the input. Evaluation of the generated captions through automatic metrics shows that our method outperforms a baseline designed for non-music audio captioning. Through an ablation study, we unveil that this performance boost can be mainly attributed to pre-training of the audio encoder, while other design choices - modality fusion, decoding strategy and the use of attention - contribute only marginally. Our model represents a shift away from classification-based music description and combines tasks requiring both auditory and linguistic understanding to bridge the semantic gap in music information retrieval. Comments: Accepted to IJCNN 2021 for the Special Session on Representation Learning for Audio, Speech, and Music Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2104.11984 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2104.11984v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2104.11984 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/IJCNN52387.2021.9533461 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Ilaria Manco [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 24 Apr 2021 16:34:47 UTC (1,585 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled MusCaps: Generating Captions for Music Audio, by Ilaria Manco and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Emmanouil Benetos György Fazekas export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
