<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A quick search method for audio signals based on a piecewise linear representation of feature trajectories

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.4180v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:29.539289+00:00

## Notes

[0710.4180v1] A quick search method for audio signals based on a piecewise linear representation of feature trajectories Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:0710.4180v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Multimedia arXiv:0710.4180v1 (cs) [Submitted on 23 Oct 2007] Title: A quick search method for audio signals based on a piecewise linear representation of feature trajectories Authors: Akisato Kimura , Kunio Kashino , Takayuki Kurozumi , Hiroshi Murase View a PDF of the paper titled A quick search method for audio signals based on a piecewise linear representation of feature trajectories, by Akisato Kimura and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper presents a new method for a quick similarity-based search through long unlabeled audio streams to detect and locate audio clips provided by users. The method involves feature-dimension reduction based on a piecewise linear representation of a sequential feature trajectory extracted from a long audio stream. Two techniques enable us to obtain a piecewise linear representation: the dynamic segmentation of feature trajectories and the segment-based Karhunen-Lóeve (KL) transform. The proposed search method guarantees the same search results as the search method without the proposed feature-dimension reduction method in principle. Experiment results indicate significant improvements in search speed. For example the proposed method reduced the total search time to approximately 1/12 that of previous methods and detected queries in approximately 0.3 seconds from a 200-hour audio database. Comments: 20 pages, to appear in IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM) ; Databases (cs.DB) Cite as: arXiv:0710.4180 [cs.MM] (or arXiv:0710.4180v1 [cs.MM] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.0710.4180 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing, Vol.16, No.2, pp.396-407, February 2008. Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASL.2007.912362 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Akisato Kimura [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 23 Oct 2007 03:06:53 UTC (821 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A quick search method for audio signals based on a piecewise linear representation of feature trajectories, by Akisato Kimura and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.MM < prev | next > new | recent | 2007-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.DB References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Akisato Kimura Kunio Kashino Takayuki Kurozumi Hiroshi Murase export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
