<!-- source_type: articles -->
# SerumRNN: Step by Step Audio VST Effect Programming

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2104.03876v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:46.339138+00:00

## Notes

[2104.03876v1] SerumRNN: Step by Step Audio VST Effect Programming Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2104.03876v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2104.03876v1 (cs) [Submitted on 8 Apr 2021] Title: SerumRNN: Step by Step Audio VST Effect Programming Authors: Christopher Mitcheltree , Hideki Koike View a PDF of the paper titled SerumRNN: Step by Step Audio VST Effect Programming, by Christopher Mitcheltree and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Learning to program an audio production VST synthesizer is a time consuming process, usually obtained through inefficient trial and error and only mastered after years of experience. As an educational and creative tool for sound designers, we propose SerumRNN: a system that provides step-by-step instructions for applying audio effects to change a user's input audio towards a desired sound. We apply our system to Xfer Records Serum: currently one of the most popular and complex VST synthesizers used by the audio production community. Our results indicate that SerumRNN is consistently able to provide useful feedback for a variety of different audio effects and synthesizer presets. We demonstrate the benefits of using an iterative system and show that SerumRNN learns to prioritize effects and can discover more efficient effect order sequences than a variety of baselines. Comments: Audio samples of the system can be listened to at this http URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2104.03876 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2104.03876v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2104.03876 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 10th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Music, Sound, Art, and Design (EvoMUSART 2021), Seville, Spain Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-72914-1_15 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Christopher Mitcheltree [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 8 Apr 2021 16:32:14 UTC (1,609 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled SerumRNN: Step by Step Audio VST Effect Programming, by Christopher Mitcheltree and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Christopher Mitcheltree export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
