<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Moving to Communicate, Moving to Interact: Patterns of Body Motion in Musical Duo Performance

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.09018v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:34.756632+00:00

## Notes

[1911.09018v1] Moving to Communicate, Moving to Interact: Patterns of Body Motion in Musical Duo Performance Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1911.09018v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1911.09018v1 (cs) [Submitted on 20 Nov 2019] Title: Moving to Communicate, Moving to Interact: Patterns of Body Motion in Musical Duo Performance Authors: Laura Bishop , Carlos Cancino-Chacón , Werner Goebl View a PDF of the paper titled Moving to Communicate, Moving to Interact: Patterns of Body Motion in Musical Duo Performance, by Laura Bishop and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Skilled ensemble musicians coordinate with high precision, even when improvising or interpreting loosely-defined notation. Successful coordination is supported primarily through shared attention to the musical output; however, musicians also interact visually, particularly when the musical timing is irregular. This study investigated the performance conditions that encourage visual signalling and interaction between ensemble members. Piano and clarinet duos rehearsed a new piece as their body motion was recorded. Analyses of head movement showed that performers communicated gesturally following held notes. Gesture patterns became more consistent as duos rehearsed, though consistency dropped again during a final performance given under no-visual-contact conditions. Movements were smoother and interperformer coordination was stronger during irregularly-timed passages than elsewhere in the piece, suggesting heightened visual interaction. Performers moved more after rehearsing than before, and more when they could see each other than when visual contact was occluded. Periods of temporal instability and increased familiarity with the music and co-performer seem to encourage visual interaction, while specific communicative gestures are integrated into performance routines through rehearsal. We propose that visual interaction may support successful ensemble performance by affirming coordination throughout periods of temporal instability and serving as a social motivator to promote creative risk-taking. Comments: 32 pages, 10 figures. This version is a final preprint of the paper prepared by the authors. Please cite as Bishop, L., Cancino-Chacón, C., and Goebl, W. (2019). Moving to communicate, moving to interact: Patterns of body motion in musical duo performance. Music Perception, 37, 1-25 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1911.09018 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1911.09018v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1911.09018 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Music Perception 37 (2019) 1-25 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1525/mp.2019.37.1.1 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Carlos Eduardo Cancino-Chacón [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 20 Nov 2019 16:46:23 UTC (6,336 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Moving to Communicate, Moving to Interact: Patterns of Body Motion in Musical Duo Performance, by Laura Bishop and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-11 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Laura Bishop Carlos Cancino Chacón Werner Goebl export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
