<!-- source_type: articles -->
# SPICA Assessment Study Report for ESA Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 Plan

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1001.0709v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:07.737241+00:00

## Notes

[1001.0709v1] SPICA Assessment Study Report for ESA Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 Plan Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > astro-ph > arXiv:1001.0709v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Astrophysics > Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics arXiv:1001.0709v1 (astro-ph) [Submitted on 5 Jan 2010] Title: SPICA Assessment Study Report for ESA Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 Plan Authors: SPICA Study Team Collaboration View a PDF of the paper titled SPICA Assessment Study Report for ESA Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 Plan, by SPICA Study Team Collaboration View PDF Abstract: SPICA (Space Infrared Telescope for Cosmology and Astrophysics) is a JAXA led observatory that will operate in the mid and far infrared wavelength range (5-210 micron) with unprecedented sensitivity, thanks to the 3.5 m (current baseline) cold telescope (< 6 K) and advanced instruments. SPICA will carry a mid infrared camera, mid infrared spectrometers and a mid infrared coronagraph (built by JAXA institutes), a far infrared imaging spectrometer (SAFARI, provided by a European/Canadian consortium), and a far infrared/sub-millimetre spectrometer (proposed by U.S.). The contribution from ESA consists of the telescope assembly, a collaboration in the ground segment and the interface management to JAXA of the European instrument SAFARI. The SPICA observatory will be open to the worldwide community and will provide unique and ground-breaking answers to fundamental questions in planetary formation and formation and evolution of galaxies through cosmic history. The target launch year of SPICA is 2018. SPICA was selected in October 2007 as a candidate M-class mission for the ESA Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 Plan, with the character of "mission of opportunity". This report presents the science case of SPICA, describes the mission and summarises the outcome of the ESA Assessment Study. Comments: 120 pages Subjects: Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM) Report number: ESA/SRE(2009)6 Cite as: arXiv:1001.0709 [astro-ph.IM] (or arXiv:1001.0709v1 [astro-ph.IM] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1001.0709 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ana María Heras [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 5 Jan 2010 16:18:00 UTC (4,664 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled SPICA Assessment Study Report for ESA Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 Plan, by SPICA Study Team Collaboration View PDF view license Current browse context: astro-ph.IM < prev | next > new | recent | 2010-01 Change to browse by: astro-ph References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
