<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Zero-Shot Audio Classification Based on Class Label Embeddings

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.01926v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:59.213695+00:00

## Notes

[1905.01926v2] Zero-Shot Audio Classification Based on Class Label Embeddings Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1905.01926v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:1905.01926v2 (cs) [Submitted on 6 May 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 7 Aug 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: Zero-Shot Audio Classification Based on Class Label Embeddings Authors: Huang Xie , Tuomas Virtanen View a PDF of the paper titled Zero-Shot Audio Classification Based on Class Label Embeddings, by Huang Xie and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper proposes a zero-shot learning approach for audio classification based on the textual information about class labels without any audio samples from target classes. We propose an audio classification system built on the bilinear model, which takes audio feature embeddings and semantic class label embeddings as input, and measures the compatibility between an audio feature embedding and a class label embedding. We use VGGish to extract audio feature embeddings from audio recordings. We treat textual labels as semantic side information of audio classes, and use Word2Vec to generate class label embeddings. Results on the ESC-50 dataset show that the proposed system can perform zero-shot audio classification with small training dataset. It can achieve accuracy (26 % on average) better than random guess (10 %) on each audio category. Particularly, it reaches up to 39.7 % for the category of natural audio classes. Comments: 2019 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA) Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:1905.01926 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:1905.01926v2 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1905.01926 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Huang Xie [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 6 May 2019 11:08:08 UTC (432 KB) [v2] Wed, 7 Aug 2019 13:12:55 UTC (450 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Zero-Shot Audio Classification Based on Class Label Embeddings, by Huang Xie and 1 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Huang Xie Tuomas Virtanen export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
