<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Example-Based Framework for Perceptually Guided Audio Texture Generation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11859v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:44.889028+00:00

## Notes

[2308.11859v2] Example-Based Framework for Perceptually Guided Audio Texture Generation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2308.11859v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2308.11859v2 (eess) [Submitted on 23 Aug 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 14 Apr 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: Example-Based Framework for Perceptually Guided Audio Texture Generation Authors: Purnima Kamath , Chitralekha Gupta , Lonce Wyse , Suranga Nanayakkara View a PDF of the paper titled Example-Based Framework for Perceptually Guided Audio Texture Generation, by Purnima Kamath and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Controllable generation using StyleGANs is usually achieved by training the model using labeled data. For audio textures, however, there is currently a lack of large semantically labeled datasets. Therefore, to control generation, we develop a method for semantic control over an unconditionally trained StyleGAN in the absence of such labeled datasets. In this paper, we propose an example-based framework to determine guidance vectors for audio texture generation based on user-defined semantic attributes. Our approach leverages the semantically disentangled latent space of an unconditionally trained StyleGAN. By using a few synthetic examples to indicate the presence or absence of a semantic attribute, we infer the guidance vectors in the latent space of the StyleGAN to control that attribute during generation. Our results show that our framework can find user-defined and perceptually relevant guidance vectors for controllable generation for audio textures. Furthermore, we demonstrate an application of our framework to other tasks, such as selective semantic attribute transfer. Comments: Accepted for publication at IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2308.11859 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2308.11859v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.11859 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2024.3393741 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Purnima Kamath [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 23 Aug 2023 01:29:46 UTC (10,460 KB) [v2] Sun, 14 Apr 2024 10:14:05 UTC (11,252 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Example-Based Framework for Perceptually Guided Audio Texture Generation, by Purnima Kamath and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
