<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Topological Signal Processing over Simplicial Complexes

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11577v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:40.071053+00:00

## Notes

[1907.11577v2] Topological Signal Processing over Simplicial Complexes Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1907.11577v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1907.11577v2 (eess) [Submitted on 26 Jul 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 13 Mar 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: Topological Signal Processing over Simplicial Complexes Authors: Sergio Barbarossa , Stefania Sardellitti View a PDF of the paper titled Topological Signal Processing over Simplicial Complexes, by Sergio Barbarossa and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: The goal of this paper is to establish the fundamental tools to analyze signals defined over a topological space, i.e. a set of points along with a set of neighborhood relations. This setup does not require the definition of a metric and then it is especially useful to deal with signals defined over non-metric spaces. We focus on signals defined over simplicial complexes. Graph Signal Processing (GSP) represents a special case of Topological Signal Processing (TSP), referring to the situation where the signals are associated only with the vertices of a graph. Even though the theory can be applied to signals of any order, we focus on signals defined over the edges of a graph and show how building a simplicial complex of order two, i.e. including triangles, yields benefits in the analysis of edge signals. After reviewing the basic principles of algebraic topology, we derive a sampling theory for signals of any order and emphasize the interplay between signals of different order. Then we propose a method to infer the topology of a simplicial complex from data. We conclude with applications to real edge signals and to the analysis of discrete vector fields to illustrate the benefits of the proposed methodologies. Comments: To appear in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, March 2020 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1907.11577 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1907.11577v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1907.11577 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2020.2981920 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Stefania Sardellitti [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 26 Jul 2019 13:50:01 UTC (1,108 KB) [v2] Fri, 13 Mar 2020 13:48:55 UTC (913 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Topological Signal Processing over Simplicial Complexes, by Sergio Barbarossa and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-07 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 1 blog link ( what is this? ) export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
