<!-- source_type: articles -->
# STAR-RIS Transceivers: Integrated Sensing and Communication with Pulsed Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2507.02346v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:13.862880+00:00

## Notes

[2507.02346v1] STAR-RIS Transceivers: Integrated Sensing and Communication with Pulsed Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2507.02346v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2507.02346v1 (eess) [Submitted on 3 Jul 2025] Title: STAR-RIS Transceivers: Integrated Sensing and Communication with Pulsed Signals Authors: Hedieh Taremizadeh , Emanuele Grossi , Luca Venturino View a PDF of the paper titled STAR-RIS Transceivers: Integrated Sensing and Communication with Pulsed Signals, by Hedieh Taremizadeh and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This study examines an integrated sensing and communication (ISAC) transceiver featuring a simultaneous transmitting and reflecting reconfigurable intelligent surface (STAR-RIS) and a receiver equipped with a passive electronically scanned array (PESA) and a single digital channel. By utilizing a periodic pulsed signal emitted by a feeder, we introduce at the STAR-RIS a space modulation to illuminate two angular directions observed by the radar receiver, one in each half-space, and a time modulation to distinguish the corresponding echoes from prospective moving targets and embed communication messages. The proposed time modulation employs orthogonal binary codebooks with different trade-offs in transmission and error rates, while having minimal impact on the radar performance, evaluated by probability of detection and root mean square error in the radial velocity estimation. Comments: Accepted to the 33rd European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO 2025), Isola delle Femmine, Palermo, Italy Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2507.02346 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2507.02346v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.02346 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proc. of the 33rd European Signal Processing Conference, Palermo, Italy, 8-12 September 2025 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.23919/EUSIPCO63237.2025.11226036 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Luca Venturino [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 3 Jul 2025 06:16:39 UTC (176 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled STAR-RIS Transceivers: Integrated Sensing and Communication with Pulsed Signals, by Hedieh Taremizadeh and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-07 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
