<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Zero-shot audio captioning with audio-language model guidance and audio context keywords

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08396v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:56:22.243102+00:00

## Notes

[2311.08396v1] Zero-shot audio captioning with audio-language model guidance and audio context keywords Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2311.08396v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2311.08396v1 (eess) [Submitted on 14 Nov 2023] Title: Zero-shot audio captioning with audio-language model guidance and audio context keywords Authors: Leonard Salewski , Stefan Fauth , A. Sophia Koepke , Zeynep Akata View a PDF of the paper titled Zero-shot audio captioning with audio-language model guidance and audio context keywords, by Leonard Salewski and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Zero-shot audio captioning aims at automatically generating descriptive textual captions for audio content without prior training for this task. Different from speech recognition which translates audio content that contains spoken language into text, audio captioning is commonly concerned with ambient sounds, or sounds produced by a human performing an action. Inspired by zero-shot image captioning methods, we propose ZerAuCap, a novel framework for summarising such general audio signals in a text caption without requiring task-specific training. In particular, our framework exploits a pre-trained large language model (LLM) for generating the text which is guided by a pre-trained audio-language model to produce captions that describe the audio content. Additionally, we use audio context keywords that prompt the language model to generate text that is broadly relevant to sounds. Our proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art results in zero-shot audio captioning on the AudioCaps and Clotho datasets. Our code is available at this https URL . Comments: NeurIPS 2023 - Machine Learning for Audio Workshop (Oral) Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2311.08396 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2311.08396v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.08396 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Leonard Salewski [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 18:55:48 UTC (347 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Zero-shot audio captioning with audio-language model guidance and audio context keywords, by Leonard Salewski and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.CL cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
