<!-- source_type: articles -->
# L3DAS21 Challenge: Machine Learning for 3D Audio Signal Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2104.05499v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:59.324654+00:00

## Notes

[2104.05499v3] L3DAS21 Challenge: Machine Learning for 3D Audio Signal Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2104.05499v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2104.05499v3 (eess) [Submitted on 12 Apr 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 29 Apr 2021 (this version, v3)] Title: L3DAS21 Challenge: Machine Learning for 3D Audio Signal Processing Authors: Eric Guizzo , Riccardo F. Gramaccioni , Saeid Jamili , Christian Marinoni , Edoardo Massaro , Claudia Medaglia , Giuseppe Nachira , Leonardo Nucciarelli , Ludovica Paglialunga , Marco Pennese , Sveva Pepe , Enrico Rocchi , Aurelio Uncini , Danilo Comminiello View a PDF of the paper titled L3DAS21 Challenge: Machine Learning for 3D Audio Signal Processing, by Eric Guizzo and 13 other authors View PDF Abstract: The L3DAS21 Challenge is aimed at encouraging and fostering collaborative research on machine learning for 3D audio signal processing, with particular focus on 3D speech enhancement (SE) and 3D sound localization and detection (SELD). Alongside with the challenge, we release the L3DAS21 dataset, a 65 hours 3D audio corpus, accompanied with a Python API that facilitates the data usage and results submission stage. Usually, machine learning approaches to 3D audio tasks are based on single-perspective Ambisonics recordings or on arrays of single-capsule microphones. We propose, instead, a novel multichannel audio configuration based multiple-source and multiple-perspective Ambisonics recordings, performed with an array of two first-order Ambisonics microphones. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first time that a dual-mic Ambisonics configuration is used for these tasks. We provide baseline models and results for both tasks, obtained with state-of-the-art architectures: FaSNet for SE and SELDNet for SELD. This report is aimed at providing all needed information to participate in the L3DAS21 Challenge, illustrating the details of the L3DAS21 dataset, the challenge tasks and the baseline models. Comments: Documentation paper for the L3DAS21 Challenge for IEEE MLSP 2021. Further information on this http URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2104.05499 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2104.05499v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2104.05499 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 2021 IEEE 31st International Workshop on Machine Learning for Signal Processing (MLSP), 2021, pp. 1-6 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MLSP52302.2021.9596248 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Danilo Comminiello [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 12 Apr 2021 14:29:54 UTC (35 KB) [v2] Thu, 22 Apr 2021 16:11:26 UTC (35 KB) [v3] Thu, 29 Apr 2021 18:18:30 UTC (35 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled L3DAS21 Challenge: Machine Learning for 3D Audio Signal Processing, by Eric Guizzo and 13 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
