<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Automatic multitrack mixing with a differentiable mixing console of neural audio effects

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2010.10291v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:14.591150+00:00

## Notes

[2010.10291v1] Automatic multitrack mixing with a differentiable mixing console of neural audio effects Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2010.10291v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2010.10291v1 (eess) [Submitted on 20 Oct 2020] Title: Automatic multitrack mixing with a differentiable mixing console of neural audio effects Authors: Christian J. Steinmetz , Jordi Pons , Santiago Pascual , Joan Serrà View a PDF of the paper titled Automatic multitrack mixing with a differentiable mixing console of neural audio effects, by Christian J. Steinmetz and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Applications of deep learning to automatic multitrack mixing are largely unexplored. This is partly due to the limited available data, coupled with the fact that such data is relatively unstructured and variable. To address these challenges, we propose a domain-inspired model with a strong inductive bias for the mixing task. We achieve this with the application of pre-trained sub-networks and weight sharing, as well as with a sum/difference stereo loss function. The proposed model can be trained with a limited number of examples, is permutation invariant with respect to the input ordering, and places no limit on the number of input sources. Furthermore, it produces human-readable mixing parameters, allowing users to manually adjust or refine the generated mix. Results from a perceptual evaluation involving audio engineers indicate that our approach generates mixes that outperform baseline approaches. To the best of our knowledge, this work demonstrates the first approach in learning multitrack mixing conventions from real-world data at the waveform level, without knowledge of the underlying mixing parameters. Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2010.10291 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2010.10291v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2010.10291 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Christian Steinmetz [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 20 Oct 2020 14:04:22 UTC (276 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Automatic multitrack mixing with a differentiable mixing console of neural audio effects, by Christian J. Steinmetz and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
