<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Human Perception of Audio Deepfakes

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2107.09667v7
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:05.383853+00:00

## Notes

[2107.09667v7] Human Perception of Audio Deepfakes Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2107.09667v7 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Human-Computer Interaction arXiv:2107.09667v7 (cs) [Submitted on 20 Jul 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 27 Aug 2024 (this version, v7)] Title: Human Perception of Audio Deepfakes Authors: Nicolas M. Müller , Karla Pizzi , Jennifer Williams View a PDF of the paper titled Human Perception of Audio Deepfakes, by Nicolas M. M\"uller and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The recent emergence of deepfakes has brought manipulated and generated content to the forefront of machine learning research. Automatic detection of deepfakes has seen many new machine learning techniques, however, human detection capabilities are far less explored. In this paper, we present results from comparing the abilities of humans and machines for detecting audio deepfakes used to imitate someone's voice. For this, we use a web-based application framework formulated as a game. Participants were asked to distinguish between real and fake audio samples. In our experiment, 472 unique users competed against a state-of-the-art AI deepfake detection algorithm for 14912 total of rounds of the game. We find that humans and deepfake detection algorithms share similar strengths and weaknesses, both struggling to detect certain types of attacks. This is in contrast to the superhuman performance of AI in many application areas such as object detection or face recognition. Concerning human success factors, we find that IT professionals have no advantage over non-professionals but native speakers have an advantage over non-native speakers. Additionally, we find that older participants tend to be more susceptible than younger ones. These insights may be helpful when designing future cybersecurity training for humans as well as developing better detection algorithms. Comments: Published at ACM Multimedia 2022 Workshop DDAM First International Workshop on Deepfake Detection for Audio Multimedia at ACM Multimedia 2022 Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2107.09667 [cs.HC] (or arXiv:2107.09667v7 [cs.HC] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2107.09667 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1145/3552466.3556531 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Nicolas Michael Müller [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 20 Jul 2021 09:19:42 UTC (339 KB) [v2] Thu, 30 Sep 2021 13:15:52 UTC (321 KB) [v3] Mon, 28 Mar 2022 12:32:45 UTC (1,471 KB) [v4] Mon, 1 Aug 2022 07:51:21 UTC (1,552 KB) [v5] Wed, 5 Oct 2022 08:22:11 UTC (1,605 KB) [v6] Thu, 6 Oct 2022 07:49:41 UTC (1,605 KB) [v7] Tue, 27 Aug 2024 15:19:45 UTC (1,605 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Human Perception of Audio Deepfakes, by Nicolas M. M\"uller and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.HC < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Konstantin Böttinger export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
