<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Meta-learning-based percussion transcription and $t\bar{a}la$ identification from low-resource audio

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04742v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:18.883545+00:00

## Notes

[2501.04742v3] Meta-learning-based percussion transcription and $t\bar{a}la$ identification from low-resource audio Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2501.04742v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2501.04742v3 (eess) [Submitted on 8 Jan 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 23 Jun 2025 (this version, v3)] Title: Meta-learning-based percussion transcription and $t\bar{a}la$ identification from low-resource audio Authors: Rahul Bapusaheb Kodag , Vipul Arora View a PDF of the paper titled Meta-learning-based percussion transcription and $t\bar{a}la$ identification from low-resource audio, by Rahul Bapusaheb Kodag and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This study introduces a meta-learning-based approach for low-resource Tabla Stroke Transcription (TST) and $t\bar{a}la$ identification in Hindustani classical music. Using Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning (MAML), we address the challenges of limited annotated datasets and label heterogeneity, enabling rapid adaptation to new tasks with minimal data. The method is validated across various datasets, including tabla solo and concert recordings, demonstrating robustness in polyphonic audio scenarios. We propose two novel $t\bar{a}la$ identification techniques based on stroke sequences and rhythmic patterns. Additionally, the approach proves effective for Automatic Drum Transcription (ADT), showcasing its flexibility for Indian and Western percussion music. Experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms existing techniques in low-resource settings, significantly contributing to music transcription and studying musical traditions through computational tools. Comments: Accepted at IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing. - Added baseline experiments and Results. Modified block diagram Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2501.04742 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2501.04742v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2501.04742 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Rahul Kodag [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 8 Jan 2025 05:59:36 UTC (263 KB) [v2] Tue, 14 Jan 2025 02:36:30 UTC (263 KB) [v3] Mon, 23 Jun 2025 05:28:14 UTC (159 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Meta-learning-based percussion transcription and $t\bar{a}la$ identification from low-resource audio, by Rahul Bapusaheb Kodag and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-01 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
