<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Generation of lyrics lines conditioned on music audio clips

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2009.14375v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:10.637034+00:00

## Notes

[2009.14375v1] Generation of lyrics lines conditioned on music audio clips Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2009.14375v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:2009.14375v1 (cs) [Submitted on 30 Sep 2020] Title: Generation of lyrics lines conditioned on music audio clips Authors: Olga Vechtomova , Gaurav Sahu , Dhruv Kumar View a PDF of the paper titled Generation of lyrics lines conditioned on music audio clips, by Olga Vechtomova and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: We present a system for generating novel lyrics lines conditioned on music audio. A bimodal neural network model learns to generate lines conditioned on any given short audio clip. The model consists of a spectrogram variational autoencoder (VAE) and a text VAE. Both automatic and human evaluations demonstrate effectiveness of our model in generating lines that have an emotional impact matching a given audio clip. The system is intended to serve as a creativity tool for songwriters. Comments: Accepted to First Workshop on NLP for Music and Audio (NLP4MusA) at ISMIR 2020 Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) Cite as: arXiv:2009.14375 [cs.CL] (or arXiv:2009.14375v1 [cs.CL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2009.14375 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Dhruv Kumar [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 30 Sep 2020 01:22:58 UTC (2,106 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Generation of lyrics lines conditioned on music audio clips, by Olga Vechtomova and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CL < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-09 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Olga Vechtomova Gaurav Sahu Dhruv Kumar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
