<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Diffusion Models as Masked Audio-Video Learners

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03937v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:44.204128+00:00

## Notes

[2310.03937v2] Diffusion Models as Masked Audio-Video Learners Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2310.03937v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2310.03937v2 (cs) [Submitted on 5 Oct 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 4 Jan 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: Diffusion Models as Masked Audio-Video Learners Authors: Elvis Nunez , Yanzi Jin , Mohammad Rastegari , Sachin Mehta , Maxwell Horton View a PDF of the paper titled Diffusion Models as Masked Audio-Video Learners, by Elvis Nunez and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Over the past several years, the synchronization between audio and visual signals has been leveraged to learn richer audio-visual representations. Aided by the large availability of unlabeled videos, many unsupervised training frameworks have demonstrated impressive results in various downstream audio and video tasks. Recently, Masked Audio-Video Learners (MAViL) has emerged as a state-of-the-art audio-video pre-training framework. MAViL couples contrastive learning with masked autoencoding to jointly reconstruct audio spectrograms and video frames by fusing information from both modalities. In this paper, we study the potential synergy between diffusion models and MAViL, seeking to derive mutual benefits from these two frameworks. The incorporation of diffusion into MAViL, combined with various training efficiency methodologies that include the utilization of a masking ratio curriculum and adaptive batch sizing, results in a notable 32% reduction in pre-training Floating-Point Operations (FLOPS) and an 18% decrease in pre-training wall clock time. Crucially, this enhanced efficiency does not compromise the model's performance in downstream audio-classification tasks when compared to MAViL's performance. Comments: Camera-ready version for the Machine Learning for Audio Workshop at NeurIPS 2023 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2310.03937 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2310.03937v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.03937 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Elvis Nunez [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 5 Oct 2023 23:00:27 UTC (326 KB) [v2] Thu, 4 Jan 2024 21:39:25 UTC (326 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Diffusion Models as Masked Audio-Video Learners, by Elvis Nunez and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
