<!-- source_type: articles -->
# InverSynth: Deep Estimation of Synthesizer Parameter Configurations from Audio Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.06349v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:58.644381+00:00

## Notes

[1812.06349v2] InverSynth: Deep Estimation of Synthesizer Parameter Configurations from Audio Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1812.06349v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1812.06349v2 (cs) [Submitted on 15 Dec 2018 ( v1 ), last revised 21 Nov 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: InverSynth: Deep Estimation of Synthesizer Parameter Configurations from Audio Signals Authors: Oren Barkan , David Tsiris , Ori Katz , Noam Koenigstein View a PDF of the paper titled InverSynth: Deep Estimation of Synthesizer Parameter Configurations from Audio Signals, by Oren Barkan and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Sound synthesis is a complex field that requires domain expertise. Manual tuning of synthesizer parameters to match a specific sound can be an exhaustive task, even for experienced sound engineers. In this paper, we introduce InverSynth - an automatic method for synthesizer parameters tuning to match a given input sound. InverSynth is based on strided convolutional neural networks and is capable of inferring the synthesizer parameters configuration from the input spectrogram and even from the raw audio. The effectiveness InverSynth is demonstrated on a subtractive synthesizer with four frequency modulated oscillators, envelope generator and a gater effect. We present extensive quantitative and qualitative results that showcase the superiority InverSynth over several baselines. Furthermore, we show that the network depth is an important factor that contributes to the prediction accuracy. Comments: To appear in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:1812.06349 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1812.06349v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1812.06349 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Oren Barkan [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 15 Dec 2018 20:23:51 UTC (2,548 KB) [v2] Thu, 21 Nov 2019 06:47:08 UTC (3,259 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled InverSynth: Deep Estimation of Synthesizer Parameter Configurations from Audio Signals, by Oren Barkan and 2 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-12 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Oren Barkan David Tsiris export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
