<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multi-level Attention network using text, audio and video for Depression Prediction

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.01417v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:15.982897+00:00

## Notes

[1909.01417v1] Multi-level Attention network using text, audio and video for Depression Prediction Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1909.01417v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition arXiv:1909.01417v1 (cs) [Submitted on 3 Sep 2019] Title: Multi-level Attention network using text, audio and video for Depression Prediction Authors: Anupama Ray , Siddharth Kumar , Rutvik Reddy , Prerana Mukherjee , Ritu Garg View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-level Attention network using text, audio and video for Depression Prediction, by Anupama Ray and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Depression has been the leading cause of mental-health illness worldwide. Major depressive disorder (MDD), is a common mental health disorder that affects both psychologically as well as physically which could lead to loss of lives. Due to the lack of diagnostic tests and subjectivity involved in detecting depression, there is a growing interest in using behavioural cues to automate depression diagnosis and stage prediction. The absence of labelled behavioural datasets for such problems and the huge amount of variations possible in behaviour makes the problem more challenging. This paper presents a novel multi-level attention based network for multi-modal depression prediction that fuses features from audio, video and text modalities while learning the intra and inter modality relevance. The multi-level attention reinforces overall learning by selecting the most influential features within each modality for the decision making. We perform exhaustive experimentation to create different regression models for audio, video and text modalities. Several fusions models with different configurations are constructed to understand the impact of each feature and modality. We outperform the current baseline by 17.52% in terms of root mean squared error. Comments: in Proceedings of the 9th International Workshop on Audio/Visual Emotion Challenge, AVEC 2019, ACM Multimedia Workshop, Nice, France Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1909.01417 [cs.CV] (or arXiv:1909.01417v1 [cs.CV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1909.01417 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Prerana Mukherjee [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 3 Sep 2019 19:40:38 UTC (342 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-level Attention network using text, audio and video for Depression Prediction, by Anupama Ray and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CV < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-09 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Anupama Ray Prerana Mukherjee export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
