<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multi-Objective Signal Processing Optimization: The Way to Balance Conflicting Metrics in 5G Systems

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1406.2871v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:31.981793+00:00

## Notes

[1406.2871v2] Multi-Objective Signal Processing Optimization: The Way to Balance Conflicting Metrics in 5G Systems Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1406.2871v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1406.2871v2 (cs) [Submitted on 11 Jun 2014 ( v1 ), last revised 14 Jul 2016 (this version, v2)] Title: Multi-Objective Signal Processing Optimization: The Way to Balance Conflicting Metrics in 5G Systems Authors: Emil Björnson , Eduard Jorswieck , Mérouane Debbah , Björn Ottersten View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-Objective Signal Processing Optimization: The Way to Balance Conflicting Metrics in 5G Systems, by Emil Bj\"ornson and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: The evolution of cellular networks is driven by the dream of ubiquitous wireless connectivity: Any data service is instantly accessible everywhere. With each generation of cellular networks, we have moved closer to this wireless dream; first by delivering wireless access to voice communications, then by providing wireless data services, and recently by delivering a WiFi-like experience with wide-area coverage and user mobility management. The support for high data rates has been the main objective in recent years, as seen from the academic focus on sum-rate optimization and the efforts from standardization bodies to meet the peak rate requirements specified in IMT-Advanced. In contrast, a variety of metrics/objectives are put forward in the technological preparations for 5G networks: higher peak rates, improved coverage with uniform user experience, higher reliability and lower latency, better energy efficiency, lower-cost user devices and services, better scalability with number of devices, etc. These multiple objectives are coupled, often in a conflicting manner such that improvements in one objective lead to degradation in the other objectives. Hence, the design of future networks calls for new optimization tools that properly handle the existence and tradeoffs between multiple objectives. In this article, we provide a review of multi-objective optimization (MOO), which is a mathematical framework to solve design problems with multiple conflicting objectives. (...) We provide a survey of the basic definitions, properties, and algorithmic tools in MOO. This reveals how signal processing algorithms are used to visualize the inherent conflicts between 5G performance objectives, thereby allowing the network designer to understand the possible operating points and how to balance the objectives in an efficient and satisfactory way. For clarity, we provide a case study on massive MIMO. Comments: Published in IEEE Signal Processing Magazine (Special Issue on Signal Processing for the 5G Revolution), 10 pages, 8 figures. This version corrects a few typos in the simulation section. The results can be reproduced using the following Matlab code: this https URL Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) ; Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI) Cite as: arXiv:1406.2871 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1406.2871v2 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1406.2871 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 31, no. 6, pp. 14-23, November 2014 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2014.2330661 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Emil Björnson [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 11 Jun 2014 12:14:06 UTC (552 KB) [v2] Thu, 14 Jul 2016 18:46:09 UTC (942 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-Objective Signal Processing Optimization: The Way to Balance Conflicting Metrics in 5G Systems, by Emil Bj\"ornson and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2014-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.NI math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Emil Björnson Eduard A. Jorswieck Mérouane Debbah Björn E. Ottersten export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
