<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Twenty-Five Years of Advances in Beamforming: From Convex and Nonconvex Optimization to Learning Techniques

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.02165v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:33.760863+00:00

## Notes

[2211.02165v3] Twenty-Five Years of Advances in Beamforming: From Convex and Nonconvex Optimization to Learning Techniques Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2211.02165v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2211.02165v3 (eess) [Submitted on 3 Nov 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 22 Mar 2023 (this version, v3)] Title: Twenty-Five Years of Advances in Beamforming: From Convex and Nonconvex Optimization to Learning Techniques Authors: Ahmet M. Elbir , Kumar Vijay Mishra , Sergiy A. Vorobyov , Robert W. Heath Jr View a PDF of the paper titled Twenty-Five Years of Advances in Beamforming: From Convex and Nonconvex Optimization to Learning Techniques, by Ahmet M. Elbir and Kumar Vijay Mishra and Sergiy A. Vorobyov and Robert W. Heath Jr View PDF Abstract: Beamforming is a signal processing technique to steer, shape, and focus an electromagnetic wave using an array of sensors toward a desired direction. It has been used in several engineering applications such as radar, sonar, acoustics, astronomy, seismology, medical imaging, and communications. With the advances in multi-antenna technologies largely for radar and communications, there has been a great interest on beamformer design mostly relying on convex/nonconvex optimization. Recently, machine learning is being leveraged for obtaining attractive solutions to more complex beamforming problems. This article captures the evolution of beamforming in the last twenty-five years from convex-to-nonconvex optimization and optimization-to-learning approaches. It provides a glimpse of this important signal processing technique into a variety of transmit-receive architectures, propagation zones, paths, and conventional/emerging applications. Comments: Accepted Paper in IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Special Issue on the 75th Anniversary of IEEE Signal Processing Society Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:2211.02165 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2211.02165v3 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2211.02165 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine 2023 Volume 40 , Issue 4 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2023.3262366 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Ahmet M. Elbir [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 3 Nov 2022 22:34:01 UTC (14,641 KB) [v2] Mon, 13 Feb 2023 09:11:30 UTC (27,142 KB) [v3] Wed, 22 Mar 2023 07:54:34 UTC (15,386 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Twenty-Five Years of Advances in Beamforming: From Convex and Nonconvex Optimization to Learning Techniques, by Ahmet M. Elbir and Kumar Vijay Mishra and Sergiy A. Vorobyov and Robert W. Heath Jr View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT eess math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
