<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Detecting Notational Errors in Digital Music Scores

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2510.02746v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:41.727313+00:00

## Notes

[2510.02746v1] Detecting Notational Errors in Digital Music Scores Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2510.02746v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Multimedia arXiv:2510.02746v1 (cs) [Submitted on 3 Oct 2025] Title: Detecting Notational Errors in Digital Music Scores Authors: Géré Léo (Cnam, CEDRIC - VERTIGO), Nicolas Audebert (LaSTIG, IGN, CEDRIC - VERTIGO), Florent Jacquemard (CEDRIC - VERTIGO) View a PDF of the paper titled Detecting Notational Errors in Digital Music Scores, by G\'er\'e L\'eo (Cnam and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Music scores are used to precisely store music pieces for transmission and preservation. To represent and manipulate these complex objects, various formats have been tailored for different use cases. While music notation follows specific rules, digital formats usually enforce them leniently. Hence, digital music scores widely vary in quality, due to software and format specificity, conversion issues, and dubious user inputs. Problems range from minor engraving discrepancies to major notation mistakes. Yet, data quality is a major issue when dealing with musical information extraction and retrieval. We present an automated approach to detect notational errors, aiming at precisely localizing defects in scores. We identify two types of errors: i) rhythm/time inconsistencies in the encoding of individual musical elements, and ii) contextual errors, i.e. notation mistakes that break commonly accepted musical rules. We implement the latter using a modular state machine that can be easily extended to include rules representing the usual conventions from the common Western music notation. Finally, we apply this error-detection method to the piano score dataset ASAP. We highlight that around 40% of the scores contain at least one notational error, and manually fix multiple of them to enhance the dataset's quality. Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM) Cite as: arXiv:2510.02746 [cs.MM] (or arXiv:2510.02746v1 [cs.MM] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2510.02746 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: International Conference on Technologies for Music Notation and Representation (TENOR) 2025, Oct 2025, Beijing, China Submission history From: Leo Gere [ view email ] [via CCSD proxy] [v1] Fri, 3 Oct 2025 06:17:43 UTC (337 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Detecting Notational Errors in Digital Music Scores, by G\'er\'e L\'eo (Cnam and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.MM < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-10 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
