<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Teaching Digital Signal Processing by Partial Flipping, Active Learning and Visualization

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.00561v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:24.313362+00:00

## Notes

[2102.00561v1] Teaching Digital Signal Processing by Partial Flipping, Active Learning and Visualization Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2102.00561v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2102.00561v1 (eess) [Submitted on 31 Jan 2021] Title: Teaching Digital Signal Processing by Partial Flipping, Active Learning and Visualization Authors: Keshab K. Parhi View a PDF of the paper titled Teaching Digital Signal Processing by Partial Flipping, Active Learning and Visualization, by Keshab K. Parhi View PDF Abstract: Effectiveness of teaching digital signal processing can be enhanced by reducing lecture time devoted to theory, and increasing emphasis on applications, programming aspects, visualization and intuitive understanding. An integrated approach to teaching requires instructors to simultaneously teach theory and its applications in storage and processing of audio, speech and biomedical signals. Student engagement can be enhanced by engaging students to work in groups during the class where students can solve short problems and short programming assignments or take quizzes. These approaches will increase student interest in learning the subject and student engagement. Comments: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 38(3), 2021 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2102.00561 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2102.00561v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.00561 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 38(3), pp. 20-29, May 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2021.3052487 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Keshab Parhi [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 31 Jan 2021 23:30:06 UTC (3,375 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Teaching Digital Signal Processing by Partial Flipping, Active Learning and Visualization, by Keshab K. Parhi View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-02 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
