<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Sound Adversarial Audio-Visual Navigation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2202.10910v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:40.451438+00:00

## Notes

[2202.10910v1] Sound Adversarial Audio-Visual Navigation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2202.10910v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2202.10910v1 (cs) [Submitted on 22 Feb 2022] Title: Sound Adversarial Audio-Visual Navigation Authors: Yinfeng Yu , Wenbing Huang , Fuchun Sun , Changan Chen , Yikai Wang , Xiaohong Liu View a PDF of the paper titled Sound Adversarial Audio-Visual Navigation, by Yinfeng Yu and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Audio-visual navigation task requires an agent to find a sound source in a realistic, unmapped 3D environment by utilizing egocentric audio-visual observations. Existing audio-visual navigation works assume a clean environment that solely contains the target sound, which, however, would not be suitable in most real-world applications due to the unexpected sound noise or intentional interference. In this work, we design an acoustically complex environment in which, besides the target sound, there exists a sound attacker playing a zero-sum game with the agent. More specifically, the attacker can move and change the volume and category of the sound to make the agent suffer from finding the sounding object while the agent tries to dodge the attack and navigate to the goal under the intervention. Under certain constraints to the attacker, we can improve the robustness of the agent towards unexpected sound attacks in audio-visual navigation. For better convergence, we develop a joint training mechanism by employing the property of a centralized critic with decentralized actors. Experiments on two real-world 3D scan datasets, Replica, and Matterport3D, verify the effectiveness and the robustness of the agent trained under our designed environment when transferred to the clean environment or the one containing sound attackers with random policy. Project: \url{ this https URL }. Comments: This work aims to do an adversarial sound intervention for robust audio-visual navigation Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2202.10910 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2202.10910v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2202.10910 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Yinfeng Yu [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 22 Feb 2022 14:19:42 UTC (3,714 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Sound Adversarial Audio-Visual Navigation, by Yinfeng Yu and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV cs.RO eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
