<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Joint Diagonalization Based Efficient Approach to Underdetermined Blind Audio Source Separation Using the Multichannel Wiener Filter

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2101.08563v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:18.194811+00:00

## Notes

[2101.08563v1] A Joint Diagonalization Based Efficient Approach to Underdetermined Blind Audio Source Separation Using the Multichannel Wiener Filter Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2101.08563v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2101.08563v1 (cs) [Submitted on 21 Jan 2021] Title: A Joint Diagonalization Based Efficient Approach to Underdetermined Blind Audio Source Separation Using the Multichannel Wiener Filter Authors: Nobutaka Ito , Rintaro Ikeshita , Hiroshi Sawada , Tomohiro Nakatani View a PDF of the paper titled A Joint Diagonalization Based Efficient Approach to Underdetermined Blind Audio Source Separation Using the Multichannel Wiener Filter, by Nobutaka Ito and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper presents a computationally efficient approach to blind source separation (BSS) of audio signals, applicable even when there are more sources than microphones (i.e., the underdetermined case). When there are as many sources as microphones (i.e., the determined case), BSS can be performed computationally efficiently by independent component analysis (ICA). Unfortunately, however, ICA is basically inapplicable to the underdetermined case. Another BSS approach using the multichannel Wiener filter (MWF) is applicable even to this case, and encompasses full-rank spatial covariance analysis (FCA) and multichannel non-negative matrix factorization (MNMF). However, these methods require massive numbers of matrix inversions to design the MWF, and are thus computationally inefficient. To overcome this drawback, we exploit the well-known property of diagonal matrices that matrix inversion amounts to mere inversion of the diagonal elements and can thus be performed computationally efficiently. This makes it possible to drastically reduce the computational cost of the above matrix inversions based on a joint diagonalization (JD) idea, leading to computationally efficient BSS. Specifically, we restrict the N spatial covariance matrices (SCMs) of all N sources to a class of (exactly) jointly diagonalizable matrices. Based on this approach, we present FastFCA, a computationally efficient extension of FCA. We also present a unified framework for underdetermined and determined audio BSS, which highlights a theoretical connection between FastFCA and other methods. Moreover, we reveal that FastFCA can be regarded as a regularized version of approximate joint diagonalization (AJD). Comments: submitted to IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2101.08563 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2101.08563v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2101.08563 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Nobutaka Ito PhD [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 21 Jan 2021 11:42:02 UTC (987 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Joint Diagonalization Based Efficient Approach to Underdetermined Blind Audio Source Separation Using the Multichannel Wiener Filter, by Nobutaka Ito and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-01 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Nobutaka Ito Hiroshi Sawada Tomohiro Nakatani export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
