<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Performance of using Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Based Features in Nonlinear Classifiers for Phonocardiography Recordings

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12540v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:48.982353+00:00

## Notes

[2402.12540v1] Performance of using Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Based Features in Nonlinear Classifiers for Phonocardiography Recordings Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2402.12540v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2402.12540v1 (eess) [Submitted on 19 Feb 2024] Title: Performance of using Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Based Features in Nonlinear Classifiers for Phonocardiography Recordings Authors: Ibrahim Ozkan , Atila Yilmaz View a PDF of the paper titled Performance of using Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Based Features in Nonlinear Classifiers for Phonocardiography Recordings, by Ibrahim Ozkan and Atila Yilmaz View PDF Abstract: Cardiovascular system diseases can be identified by using a specialized diagnostic process utilizing a digital stethoscope. Digital stethoscopes provide phonocardiography (PCG) recordings for further inspection, besides filtering and amplification of heart sounds. In this paper, a framework that is useful to develop feature extraction and classification of PCG recordings is presented. This framework is built upon a previously proposed segmentation algorithm that processes a feature vector produced by the agglutinate application of Mel-frequency cepstrum and discrete wavelet transform (DWT). The performance of the segmentation algorithm is also tested on a new data set and compared to the previously reported results. After identifying the fundamental heart sounds and segmenting the PCG recordings, five principal features are extracted from the time domain signal and Mel-Frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCC) of each cardiac cycle. Classification outcomes are reported for three nonlinear models: k nearest neighbor (k-NN), support vector machine (SVM), and multilayer perceptrons (MLP) classifiers in comparison with a linear approach, namely Mahalanobis distance linear classifier. The results underline that although neural networks and linear classifier show compatible performance in basic classification problems, with the increase in the nonlinearity of the classification problem their performance significantly vary. Comments: in 2023 31st European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO) Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2402.12540 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2402.12540v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.12540 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 2023 31st European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO), Helsinki, Finland, 2023, pp. 1190-1194 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.23919/EUSIPCO58844.2023.10289832 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Ibrahim Ozkan [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 21:05:50 UTC (336 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Performance of using Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Based Features in Nonlinear Classifiers for Phonocardiography Recordings, by Ibrahim Ozkan and Atila Yilmaz View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-02 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
