<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces: A Signal Processing Perspective With Wireless Applications

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.00742v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:56.510508+00:00

## Notes

[2102.00742v2] Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces: A Signal Processing Perspective With Wireless Applications Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2102.00742v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2102.00742v2 (eess) [Submitted on 1 Feb 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 31 Dec 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces: A Signal Processing Perspective With Wireless Applications Authors: Emil Björnson , Henk Wymeersch , Bho Matthiesen , Petar Popovski , Luca Sanguinetti , Elisabeth de Carvalho View a PDF of the paper titled Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces: A Signal Processing Perspective With Wireless Applications, by Emil Bj\"ornson and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Antenna array technology enables directional transmission and reception of wireless signals, for communications, localization, and sensing purposes. The signal processing algorithms that underpin this technology began to be developed several decades ago [1], but it is first with the ongoing deployment of the fifth-generation (5G) wireless mobile networks that it becomes a mainstream technology [2]. The number of antenna elements in the arrays of the 5G base stations and user devices can be measured at the order of 100 and 10, respectively. As the networks shift towards using higher frequency bands, more antennas fit into a given aperture. The 5G developments enhance the transmitter and receiver functionalities, but the wireless channel propagation remains an uncontrollable system. This is illustrated in Fig. 1(a) and its mathematical notation will be introduced later. Transmitted signals with three different frequencies are shown to illustrate the fact that attenuation can vary greatly across frequencies. Looking beyond 5G, the advent of electromagnetic components that can shape how they interact with wireless signals enables partial control of the propagation. A reconfigurable intelligent surface (RIS) is a two-dimensional surface of engineered material whose properties are reconfigurable rather than static [4]. This article provides a tutorial on the fundamental properties of the RIS technology from a signal processing perspective. It is meant as a complement to recent surveys of electromagnetic and hardware aspects [4], [7], [11], acoustics [12], communication theory [13], and localization [8]. We will provide the formulas and derivations that are required to understand and analyze RIS-aided systems using signal processing, and exemplify how they can be utilized for improved communication, localization, and sensing. Comments: To appear in IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 43 pages, 8 figures Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:2102.00742 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2102.00742v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.00742 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2021.3130549 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Emil Björnson [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 1 Feb 2021 10:14:06 UTC (646 KB) [v2] Fri, 31 Dec 2021 22:02:27 UTC (676 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces: A Signal Processing Perspective With Wireless Applications, by Emil Bj\"ornson and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT eess math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
