<!-- source_type: articles -->
# The First Cadenza Signal Processing Challenge: Improving Music for Those With a Hearing Loss

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.05799v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:32.593895+00:00

## Notes

[2310.05799v1] The First Cadenza Signal Processing Challenge: Improving Music for Those With a Hearing Loss Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2310.05799v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2310.05799v1 (eess) [Submitted on 9 Oct 2023] Title: The First Cadenza Signal Processing Challenge: Improving Music for Those With a Hearing Loss Authors: Gerardo Roa Dabike , Scott Bannister , Jennifer Firth , Simone Graetzer , Rebecca Vos , Michael A. Akeroyd , Jon Barker , Trevor J. Cox , Bruno Fazenda , Alinka Greasley , William Whitmer View a PDF of the paper titled The First Cadenza Signal Processing Challenge: Improving Music for Those With a Hearing Loss, by Gerardo Roa Dabike and 10 other authors View PDF Abstract: The Cadenza project aims to improve the audio quality of music for those who have a hearing loss. This is being done through a series of signal processing challenges, to foster better and more inclusive technologies. In the first round, two common listening scenarios are considered: listening to music over headphones, and with a hearing aid in a car. The first scenario is cast as a demixing-remixing problem, where the music is decomposed into vocals, bass, drums and other components. These can then be intelligently remixed in a personalized way, to increase the audio quality for a person who has a hearing loss. In the second scenario, music is coming from car loudspeakers, and the music has to be enhanced to overcome the masking effect of the car noise. This is done by taking into account the music, the hearing ability of the listener, the hearing aid and the speed of the car. The audio quality of the submissions will be evaluated using the Hearing Aid Audio Quality Index (HAAQI) for objective assessment and by a panel of people with hearing loss for subjective evaluation. Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2310.05799 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2310.05799v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.05799 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Gerardo Roa Dabike [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 9 Oct 2023 15:36:15 UTC (1,344 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled The First Cadenza Signal Processing Challenge: Improving Music for Those With a Hearing Loss, by Gerardo Roa Dabike and 10 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
