<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Network Modulation Synthesis: New Algorithms for Generating Musical Audio Using Autoencoder Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.01948v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:40.270180+00:00

## Notes

[2109.01948v1] Network Modulation Synthesis: New Algorithms for Generating Musical Audio Using Autoencoder Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2109.01948v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2109.01948v1 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Sep 2021] Title: Network Modulation Synthesis: New Algorithms for Generating Musical Audio Using Autoencoder Networks Authors: Jeremy Hyrkas View a PDF of the paper titled Network Modulation Synthesis: New Algorithms for Generating Musical Audio Using Autoencoder Networks, by Jeremy Hyrkas View PDF Abstract: A new framework is presented for generating musical audio using autoencoder neural networks. With the presented framework, called network modulation synthesis, users can create synthesis architectures and use novel generative algorithms to more easily move through the complex latent parameter space of an autoencoder model to create audio. Implementations of the new algorithms are provided for the open-source CANNe synthesizer network, and can be applied to other autoencoder networks for audio synthesis. Spectrograms and time-series encoding analysis demonstrate that the new algorithms provide simple mechanisms for users to generate time-varying parameter combinations, and therefore auditory possibilities, that are difficult to create by generating audio from handcrafted encodings. Comments: accepted to the International Computer Music Conference 2021 (2020 Selected Papers) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2109.01948 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2109.01948v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2109.01948 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proceedings of the International Computer Music Conference (2021) 402-407 Submission history From: Jeremy Hyrkas [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 4 Sep 2021 22:58:08 UTC (1,050 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Network Modulation Synthesis: New Algorithms for Generating Musical Audio Using Autoencoder Networks, by Jeremy Hyrkas View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-09 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
