<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signal processing on large networks with group symmetries

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2303.17065v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:52.780216+00:00

## Notes

[2303.17065v1] Signal processing on large networks with group symmetries Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2303.17065v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2303.17065v1 (eess) [Submitted on 29 Mar 2023] Title: Signal processing on large networks with group symmetries Authors: Kathryn Beck , Mahya Ghandehari , Jeannette Janssen , Nauzer Kalyaniwalla View a PDF of the paper titled Signal processing on large networks with group symmetries, by Kathryn Beck and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Current methods of graph signal processing rely heavily on the specific structure of the underlying network: the shift operator and the graph Fourier transform are both derived directly from a specific graph. In many cases, the network is subject to error or natural changes over time. This motivated a new perspective on GSP, where the signal processing framework is developed for an entire class of graphs with similar structures. This approach can be formalized via the theory of graph limits, where graphs are considered as random samples from a distribution represented by a graphon. When the network under consideration has underlying symmetries, they may be modeled as samples from Cayley graphons. In Cayley graphons, vertices are sampled from a group, and the link probability between two vertices is determined by a function of the two corresponding group elements. Infinite groups such as the 1-dimensional torus can be used to model networks with an underlying spatial reality. Cayley graphons on finite groups give rise to a Stochastic Block Model, where the link probabilities between blocks form a (edge-weighted) Cayley graph. This manuscript summarizes some work on graph signal processing on large networks, in particular samples of Cayley graphons. Comments: 2 pages. This work was accepted to be presented at the Graph Signal Processing Workshop 2023 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO) Cite as: arXiv:2303.17065 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2303.17065v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2303.17065 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Mahya Ghandehari Dr [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 29 Mar 2023 23:48:14 UTC (700 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signal processing on large networks with group symmetries, by Kathryn Beck and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-03 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT eess math math.CO math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
