<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Stochastic Restoration of Heavily Compressed Musical Audio using Generative Adversarial Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.01667v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:39.075045+00:00

## Notes

[2207.01667v1] Stochastic Restoration of Heavily Compressed Musical Audio using Generative Adversarial Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2207.01667v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2207.01667v1 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Jul 2022] Title: Stochastic Restoration of Heavily Compressed Musical Audio using Generative Adversarial Networks Authors: Stefan Lattner , Javier Nistal View a PDF of the paper titled Stochastic Restoration of Heavily Compressed Musical Audio using Generative Adversarial Networks, by Stefan Lattner and Javier Nistal View PDF Abstract: Lossy audio codecs compress (and decompress) digital audio streams by removing information that tends to be inaudible in human perception. Under high compression rates, such codecs may introduce a variety of impairments in the audio signal. Many works have tackled the problem of audio enhancement and compression artifact removal using deep learning techniques. However, only a few works tackle the restoration of heavily compressed audio signals in the musical domain. In such a scenario, there is no unique solution for the restoration of the original signal. Therefore, in this study, we test a stochastic generator of a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) architecture for this task. Such a stochastic generator, conditioned on highly compressed musical audio signals, could one day generate outputs indistinguishable from high-quality releases. Therefore, the present study may yield insights into more efficient musical data storage and transmission. We train stochastic and deterministic generators on MP3-compressed audio signals with 16, 32, and 64 kbit/s. We perform an extensive evaluation of the different experiments utilizing objective metrics and listening tests. We find that the models can improve the quality of the audio signals over the MP3 versions for 16 and 32 kbit/s and that the stochastic generators are capable of generating outputs that are closer to the original signals than those of the deterministic generators. Comments: 21 pages, 5 figures, published in MDPI Electronics Special Issue "Machine Learning Applied to Music/Audio Signal Processing" Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2207.01667 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2207.01667v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2207.01667 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: MDPI Electronics 2021, 10, 1349 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10111349 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Stefan Lattner [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 4 Jul 2022 18:33:26 UTC (10,552 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Stochastic Restoration of Heavily Compressed Musical Audio using Generative Adversarial Networks, by Stefan Lattner and Javier Nistal View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-07 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
