<!-- source_type: articles -->
# AI-Assisted Music Production: A User Study on Text-to-Music Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.23364v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:33.716311+00:00

## Notes

[2509.23364v1] AI-Assisted Music Production: A User Study on Text-to-Music Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2509.23364v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2509.23364v1 (eess) [Submitted on 27 Sep 2025] Title: AI-Assisted Music Production: A User Study on Text-to-Music Models Authors: Francesca Ronchini , Luca Comanducci , Simone Marcucci , Fabio Antonacci View a PDF of the paper titled AI-Assisted Music Production: A User Study on Text-to-Music Models, by Francesca Ronchini and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Text-to-music models have revolutionized the creative landscape, offering new possibilities for music creation. Yet their integration into musicians workflows remains underexplored. This paper presents a case study on how TTM models impact music production, based on a user study of their effect on producers creative workflows. Participants produce tracks using a custom tool combining TTM and source separation models. Semi-structured interviews and thematic analysis reveal key challenges, opportunities, and ethical considerations. The findings offer insights into the transformative potential of TTMs in music production, as well as challenges in their real-world integration. Comments: Accepted at 17th International Symposium on Computer Music Multidisciplinary Research (CMMR 25) Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2509.23364 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2509.23364v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2509.23364 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Francesca Ronchini [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 27 Sep 2025 15:23:40 UTC (699 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled AI-Assisted Music Production: A User Study on Text-to-Music Models, by Francesca Ronchini and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
