<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Learning in Audio-visual Context: A Review, Analysis, and New Perspective

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2208.09579v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:08.801595+00:00

## Notes

[2208.09579v1] Learning in Audio-visual Context: A Review, Analysis, and New Perspective Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2208.09579v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition arXiv:2208.09579v1 (cs) [Submitted on 20 Aug 2022] Title: Learning in Audio-visual Context: A Review, Analysis, and New Perspective Authors: Yake Wei , Di Hu , Yapeng Tian , Xuelong Li View a PDF of the paper titled Learning in Audio-visual Context: A Review, Analysis, and New Perspective, by Yake Wei and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Sight and hearing are two senses that play a vital role in human communication and scene understanding. To mimic human perception ability, audio-visual learning, aimed at developing computational approaches to learn from both audio and visual modalities, has been a flourishing field in recent years. A comprehensive survey that can systematically organize and analyze studies of the audio-visual field is expected. Starting from the analysis of audio-visual cognition foundations, we introduce several key findings that have inspired our computational studies. Then, we systematically review the recent audio-visual learning studies and divide them into three categories: audio-visual boosting, cross-modal perception and audio-visual collaboration. Through our analysis, we discover that, the consistency of audio-visual data across semantic, spatial and temporal support the above studies. To revisit the current development of the audio-visual learning field from a more macro view, we further propose a new perspective on audio-visual scene understanding, then discuss and analyze the feasible future direction of the audio-visual learning area. Overall, this survey reviews and outlooks the current audio-visual learning field from different aspects. We hope it can provide researchers with a better understanding of this area. A website including constantly-updated survey is released: \url{ this https URL }. Comments: this https URL Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI) ACM classes: I.2.10; I.4.8; I.5 Cite as: arXiv:2208.09579 [cs.CV] (or arXiv:2208.09579v1 [cs.CV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2208.09579 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Yake Wei [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 20 Aug 2022 02:15:44 UTC (4,974 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Learning in Audio-visual Context: A Review, Analysis, and New Perspective, by Yake Wei and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CV < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
