<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Digital Audio Processing Tools for Music Corpus Studies

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2111.03895v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:51.662598+00:00

## Notes

[2111.03895v2] Digital Audio Processing Tools for Music Corpus Studies Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2111.03895v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2111.03895v2 (cs) [Submitted on 6 Nov 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Nov 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Digital Audio Processing Tools for Music Corpus Studies Authors: Johanna Devaney View a PDF of the paper titled Digital Audio Processing Tools for Music Corpus Studies, by Johanna Devaney View PDF Abstract: Digital audio processing tools offer music researchers the opportunity to examine both non-notated music and music as performance. This chapter summarises the types of information that can be extracted from audio as well as currently available audio tools for music corpus studies. The survey of extraction methods includes both a primer on signal processing and background theory on audio feature extraction. The survey of audio tools focuses on widely used tools, including both those with a graphical user interface, namely Audacity and Sonic Visualiser, and code-based tools written in the C/C++, Java, MATLAB, and Python computer programming languages. Comments: Preprint of book chapter: Devaney, J. (In Press). Audio processing tools for music corpus studies. In D. Shanahan, A. Burgoyne, & I. Quinn (Eds.), Oxford Handbook of Music and Corpus Studies. New York: Oxford University Press. The manuscript contains 6 figures and 3 tables Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2111.03895 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2111.03895v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2111.03895 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Johanna Devaney [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 6 Nov 2021 14:40:09 UTC (1,631 KB) [v2] Tue, 9 Nov 2021 16:48:55 UTC (1,625 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Digital Audio Processing Tools for Music Corpus Studies, by Johanna Devaney View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-11 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
