<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A general-purpose deep learning approach to model time-varying audio effects

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.06148v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:57.050853+00:00

## Notes

[1905.06148v2] A general-purpose deep learning approach to model time-varying audio effects Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1905.06148v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:1905.06148v2 (eess) [Submitted on 15 May 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 21 Jun 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: A general-purpose deep learning approach to model time-varying audio effects Authors: Marco A. Martínez Ramírez , Emmanouil Benetos , Joshua D. Reiss View a PDF of the paper titled A general-purpose deep learning approach to model time-varying audio effects, by Marco A. Mart\'inez Ram\'irez and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Audio processors whose parameters are modified periodically over time are often referred as time-varying or modulation based audio effects. Most existing methods for modeling these type of effect units are often optimized to a very specific circuit and cannot be efficiently generalized to other time-varying effects. Based on convolutional and recurrent neural networks, we propose a deep learning architecture for generic black-box modeling of audio processors with long-term memory. We explore the capabilities of deep neural networks to learn such long temporal dependencies and we show the network modeling various linear and nonlinear, time-varying and time-invariant audio effects. In order to measure the performance of the model, we propose an objective metric based on the psychoacoustics of modulation frequency perception. We also analyze what the model is actually learning and how the given task is accomplished. Comments: audio files: this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1905.06148 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:1905.06148v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1905.06148 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Marco A. Martínez Ramírez [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 15 May 2019 12:57:57 UTC (3,435 KB) [v2] Fri, 21 Jun 2019 11:07:53 UTC (3,494 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A general-purpose deep learning approach to model time-varying audio effects, by Marco A. Mart\'inez Ram\'irez and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
