<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Upsampling artifacts in neural audio synthesis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2010.14356v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:53.956352+00:00

## Notes

[2010.14356v2] Upsampling artifacts in neural audio synthesis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2010.14356v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2010.14356v2 (cs) [Submitted on 27 Oct 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Feb 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Upsampling artifacts in neural audio synthesis Authors: Jordi Pons , Santiago Pascual , Giulio Cengarle , Joan Serrà View a PDF of the paper titled Upsampling artifacts in neural audio synthesis, by Jordi Pons and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: A number of recent advances in neural audio synthesis rely on upsampling layers, which can introduce undesired artifacts. In computer vision, upsampling artifacts have been studied and are known as checkerboard artifacts (due to their characteristic visual pattern). However, their effect has been overlooked so far in audio processing. Here, we address this gap by studying this problem from the audio signal processing perspective. We first show that the main sources of upsampling artifacts are: (i) the tonal and filtering artifacts introduced by problematic upsampling operators, and (ii) the spectral replicas that emerge while upsampling. We then compare different upsampling layers, showing that nearest neighbor upsamplers can be an alternative to the problematic (but state-of-the-art) transposed and subpixel convolutions which are prone to introduce tonal artifacts. Comments: In proceedings of ICASSP2021. Code: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2010.14356 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2010.14356v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2010.14356 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jordi Pons [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 27 Oct 2020 15:09:28 UTC (3,537 KB) [v2] Tue, 9 Feb 2021 17:21:05 UTC (3,509 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Upsampling artifacts in neural audio synthesis, by Jordi Pons and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Jordi Pons Santiago Pascual Joan Serrà export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
