<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Differentiable Digital Signal Processing Mixture Model for Synthesis Parameter Extraction from Mixture of Harmonic Sounds

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2202.00200v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:12.000077+00:00

## Notes

[2202.00200v1] Differentiable Digital Signal Processing Mixture Model for Synthesis Parameter Extraction from Mixture of Harmonic Sounds Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2202.00200v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2202.00200v1 (cs) [Submitted on 1 Feb 2022] Title: Differentiable Digital Signal Processing Mixture Model for Synthesis Parameter Extraction from Mixture of Harmonic Sounds Authors: Masaya Kawamura , Tomohiko Nakamura , Daichi Kitamura , Hiroshi Saruwatari , Yu Takahashi , Kazunobu Kondo View a PDF of the paper titled Differentiable Digital Signal Processing Mixture Model for Synthesis Parameter Extraction from Mixture of Harmonic Sounds, by Masaya Kawamura and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: A differentiable digital signal processing (DDSP) autoencoder is a musical sound synthesizer that combines a deep neural network (DNN) and spectral modeling synthesis. It allows us to flexibly edit sounds by changing the fundamental frequency, timbre feature, and loudness (synthesis parameters) extracted from an input sound. However, it is designed for a monophonic harmonic sound and cannot handle mixtures of harmonic sounds. In this paper, we propose a model (DDSP mixture model) that represents a mixture as the sum of the outputs of multiple pretrained DDSP autoencoders. By fitting the output of the proposed model to the observed mixture, we can directly estimate the synthesis parameters of each source. Through synthesis parameter extraction experiments, we show that the proposed method has high and stable performance compared with a straightforward method that applies the DDSP autoencoder to the signals separated by an audio source separation method. Comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to appear in 2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP 2022) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2202.00200 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2202.00200v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2202.00200 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Masaya Kawamura [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 1 Feb 2022 03:38:49 UTC (97 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Differentiable Digital Signal Processing Mixture Model for Synthesis Parameter Extraction from Mixture of Harmonic Sounds, by Masaya Kawamura and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Tomohiko Nakamura Daichi Kitamura Hiroshi Saruwatari Yu Takahashi Kazunobu Kondo export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
