<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Text2FX: Harnessing CLAP Embeddings for Text-Guided Audio Effects

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.18847v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:42.254166+00:00

## Notes

[2409.18847v2] Text2FX: Harnessing CLAP Embeddings for Text-Guided Audio Effects Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2409.18847v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2409.18847v2 (eess) [Submitted on 27 Sep 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 20 Feb 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Text2FX: Harnessing CLAP Embeddings for Text-Guided Audio Effects Authors: Annie Chu , Patrick O'Reilly , Julia Barnett , Bryan Pardo View a PDF of the paper titled Text2FX: Harnessing CLAP Embeddings for Text-Guided Audio Effects, by Annie Chu and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This work introduces Text2FX, a method that leverages CLAP embeddings and differentiable digital signal processing to control audio effects, such as equalization and reverberation, using open-vocabulary natural language prompts (e.g., "make this sound in-your-face and bold"). Text2FX operates without retraining any models, relying instead on single-instance optimization within the existing embedding space, thus enabling a flexible, scalable approach to open-vocabulary sound transformations through interpretable and disentangled FX manipulation. We show that CLAP encodes valuable information for controlling audio effects and propose two optimization approaches using CLAP to map text to audio effect parameters. While we demonstrate with CLAP, this approach is applicable to any shared text-audio embedding space. Similarly, while we demonstrate with equalization and reverberation, any differentiable audio effect may be controlled. We conduct a listener study with diverse text prompts and source audio to evaluate the quality and alignment of these methods with human perception. Demos and code are available at this http URL . Comments: Accepted to ICASSP 2025. Source code and audio examples: this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2409.18847 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2409.18847v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.18847 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Annie Chu [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 27 Sep 2024 15:43:53 UTC (540 KB) [v2] Thu, 20 Feb 2025 17:06:05 UTC (540 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Text2FX: Harnessing CLAP Embeddings for Text-Guided Audio Effects, by Annie Chu and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
