<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Neuralogram: A Deep Neural Network Based Representation for Audio Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.05073v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:22.155696+00:00

## Notes

[1904.05073v1] Neuralogram: A Deep Neural Network Based Representation for Audio Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1904.05073v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1904.05073v1 (cs) [Submitted on 10 Apr 2019] Title: Neuralogram: A Deep Neural Network Based Representation for Audio Signals Authors: Prateek Verma , Chris Chafe , Jonathan Berger View a PDF of the paper titled Neuralogram: A Deep Neural Network Based Representation for Audio Signals, by Prateek Verma and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: We propose the Neuralogram -- a deep neural network based representation for understanding audio signals which, as the name suggests, transforms an audio signal to a dense, compact representation based upon embeddings learned via a neural architecture. Through a series of probing signals, we show how our representation can encapsulate pitch, timbre and rhythm-based information, and other attributes. This representation suggests a method for revealing meaningful relationships in arbitrarily long audio signals that are not readily represented by existing algorithms. This has the potential for numerous applications in audio understanding, music recommendation, meta-data extraction to name a few. Comments: Submitted to DAFx 2019, the 22nd International Conference on Digital Audio Effects, Birmingham, United Kingdom Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1904.05073 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1904.05073v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1904.05073 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Prateek Verma [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 10 Apr 2019 09:04:18 UTC (970 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Neuralogram: A Deep Neural Network Based Representation for Audio Signals, by Prateek Verma and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Prateek Verma Chris Chafe Jonathan Berger export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
