<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Probability of Resolution of MUSIC and g-MUSIC: An Asymptotic Approach

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.08738v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:36.251279+00:00

## Notes

[2106.08738v3] Probability of Resolution of MUSIC and g-MUSIC: An Asymptotic Approach Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2106.08738v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2106.08738v3 (eess) [Submitted on 16 Jun 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 18 May 2022 (this version, v3)] Title: Probability of Resolution of MUSIC and g-MUSIC: An Asymptotic Approach Authors: David Schenck , Xavier Mestre , Marius Pesavento View a PDF of the paper titled Probability of Resolution of MUSIC and g-MUSIC: An Asymptotic Approach, by David Schenck and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this article, the outlier production mechanism of the conventional Multiple Signal Classification (MUSIC) and the g-MUSIC Direction-of-Arrival (DoA) estimation technique is investigated using tools from Random Matrix Theory (RMT). A general Central Limit Theorem (CLT) is derived that allows to analyze the asymptotic stochastic behavior of eigenvector-based cost functions in the asymptotic regime where the number of snapshots and the number of antennas increase without bound at the same rate. Furthermore, this CLT is used to provide an accurate prediction of the resolution capabilities of the MUSIC and the g-MUSIC DoA estimation method. The finite dimensional distribution of the MUSIC and the g-MUSIC cost function is shown to be asymptotically jointly Gaussian distributed in the asymptotic regime. Comments: This work has been accepted for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2106.08738 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2106.08738v3 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2106.08738 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2022.3178820 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: David Schenck [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 16 Jun 2021 12:29:06 UTC (125 KB) [v2] Tue, 23 Nov 2021 17:52:27 UTC (2,271 KB) [v3] Wed, 18 May 2022 07:58:33 UTC (228 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Probability of Resolution of MUSIC and g-MUSIC: An Asymptotic Approach, by David Schenck and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-06 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
