<!-- source_type: articles -->
# InSE-NET: A Perceptually Coded Audio Quality Model based on CNN

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2108.13087v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:25.456558+00:00

## Notes

[2108.13087v1] InSE-NET: A Perceptually Coded Audio Quality Model based on CNN Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2108.13087v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2108.13087v1 (eess) [Submitted on 30 Aug 2021] Title: InSE-NET: A Perceptually Coded Audio Quality Model based on CNN Authors: Guanxin Jiang , Arijit Biswas , Christian Bergler , Andreas Maier View a PDF of the paper titled InSE-NET: A Perceptually Coded Audio Quality Model based on CNN, by Guanxin Jiang and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Automatic coded audio quality assessment is an important task whose progress is hampered by the scarcity of human annotations, poor generalization to unseen codecs, bitrates, content-types, and a lack of flexibility of existing approaches. One of the typical human-perception-related metrics, ViSQOL v3 (ViV3), has been proven to provide a high correlation to the quality scores rated by humans. In this study, we take steps to tackle problems of predicting coded audio quality by completely utilizing programmatically generated data that is informed with expert domain knowledge. We propose a learnable neural network, entitled InSE-NET, with a backbone of Inception and Squeeze-and-Excitation modules to assess the perceived quality of coded audio at a 48kHz sample rate. We demonstrate that synthetic data augmentation is capable of enhancing the prediction. Our proposed method is intrusive, i.e. it requires Gammatone spectrograms of unencoded reference signals. Besides a comparable performance to ViV3, our approach provides a more robust prediction towards higher bitrates. Comments: Accepted to 151st Audio Engineering Society (AES), Las Vegas, NV, USA, October 2021 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2108.13087 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2108.13087v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2108.13087 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Guanxin Jiang [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 30 Aug 2021 09:51:39 UTC (300 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled InSE-NET: A Perceptually Coded Audio Quality Model based on CNN, by Guanxin Jiang and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-08 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
