<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Graph Signal Processing Meets Blind Source Separation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2008.10461v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:37.909152+00:00

## Notes

[2008.10461v1] Graph Signal Processing Meets Blind Source Separation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > stat > arXiv:2008.10461v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Statistics > Methodology arXiv:2008.10461v1 (stat) [Submitted on 24 Aug 2020] Title: Graph Signal Processing Meets Blind Source Separation Authors: Jari Miettinen , Eyal Nitzan , Sergiy A. Vorobyov , Esa Ollila View a PDF of the paper titled Graph Signal Processing Meets Blind Source Separation, by Jari Miettinen and Eyal Nitzan and Sergiy A. Vorobyov and Esa Ollila View PDF Abstract: In graph signal processing (GSP), prior information on the dependencies in the signal is collected in a graph which is then used when processing or analyzing the signal. Blind source separation (BSS) techniques have been developed and analyzed in different domains, but for graph signals the research on BSS is still in its infancy. In this paper, this gap is filled with two contributions. First, a nonparametric BSS method, which is relevant to the GSP framework, is refined, the Cramér-Rao bound (CRB) for mixing and unmixing matrix estimators in the case of Gaussian moving average graph signals is derived, and for studying the achievability of the CRB, a new parametric method for BSS of Gaussian moving average graph signals is introduced. Second, we also consider BSS of non-Gaussian graph signals and two methods are proposed. Identifiability conditions show that utilizing both graph structure and non-Gaussianity provides a more robust approach than methods which are based on only either graph dependencies or non-Gaussianity. It is also demonstrated by numerical study that the proposed methods are more efficient in separating non-Gaussian graph signals. Comments: 31 pages, 3 figures, 1 table, submitted to IEEE Trans. Signal Processing on Aug. 2020 Subjects: Methodology (stat.ME) ; Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:2008.10461 [stat.ME] (or arXiv:2008.10461v1 [stat.ME] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2008.10461 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, vol. 69, pp. 2585-2599, May 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2021.3073226 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Sergiy Vorobyov A. [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 24 Aug 2020 14:05:17 UTC (104 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Graph Signal Processing Meets Blind Source Separation, by Jari Miettinen and Eyal Nitzan and Sergiy A. Vorobyov and Esa Ollila View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: stat.ME < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT math math.IT stat References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
