<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Batebit Controller: Popularizing Digital Musical Instruments Development Process

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2104.13266v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:34.848752+00:00

## Notes

[2104.13266v1] Batebit Controller: Popularizing Digital Musical Instruments Development Process Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2104.13266v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2104.13266v1 (cs) [Submitted on 27 Apr 2021] Title: Batebit Controller: Popularizing Digital Musical Instruments Development Process Authors: Filipe Calegario , João Tragtenberg , Giordano Cabral , Geber Ramalho View a PDF of the paper titled Batebit Controller: Popularizing Digital Musical Instruments Development Process, by Filipe Calegario and Jo\~ao Tragtenberg and Giordano Cabral and Geber Ramalho View PDF Abstract: In this paper, we present an ongoing research project related to popularizing the mindset of building new digital musical instruments. We developed a physical kit and software intended to provide beginner users with the first grasp on the development process of a digital musical instrument. We expect that, by using the kit and the software, the users could experiment in a short period the various steps in developing a DMI such as physical structure, electronics, programming, mapping, and sound design. Our approach to popularizing the DMI development process is twofold: reducing the cognitive load for beginners by encapsulating technical details and lowering the costs of the kit by using simple components and open-source software. In the end, we expect that by increasing the interest of beginners in the building process of digital musical instruments, we could make the community of new interfaces for musical expression stronger. Comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, 17th Brazilian Symposium on Computer Music Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2104.13266 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2104.13266v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2104.13266 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5753/sbcm.2019.10453 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Filipe Calegario [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 27 Apr 2021 15:34:53 UTC (2,865 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Batebit Controller: Popularizing Digital Musical Instruments Development Process, by Filipe Calegario and Jo\~ao Tragtenberg and Giordano Cabral and Geber Ramalho View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.HC eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
