<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Lippmann Photography: A Signal Processing Perspective

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.06004v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:31.386821+00:00

## Notes

[2207.06004v1] Lippmann Photography: A Signal Processing Perspective Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2207.06004v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Image and Video Processing arXiv:2207.06004v1 (eess) [Submitted on 13 Jul 2022] Title: Lippmann Photography: A Signal Processing Perspective Authors: Gilles Baechler , Michalina Pacholska , Arnaud Latty , Adam Scholefield , Martin Vetterli View a PDF of the paper titled Lippmann Photography: A Signal Processing Perspective, by Gilles Baechler and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Lippmann (or interferential) photography is the first and only analog photography method that can capture the full color spectrum of a scene in a single take. This technique, invented more than a hundred years ago, records the colors by creating interference patterns inside the photosensitive plate. Lippmann photography provides a great opportunity to demonstrate several fundamental concepts in signal processing. Conversely, a signal processing perspective enables us to shed new light on the technique. In our previous work, we analyzed the spectra of historical Lippmann plates using our own mathematical model. In this paper, we provide the derivation of this model and validate it experimentally. We highlight new behaviors whose explanations were ignored by physicists to date. In particular, we show that the spectra generated by Lippmann plates are in fact distorted versions of the original spectra. We also show that these distortions are influenced by the thickness of the plate and the reflection coefficient of the reflective medium used in the capture of the photographs. We verify our model with extensive experiments on our own Lippmann photographs. Comments: 12 pages, 18 figures, to be published in Transactions in Signal Processing Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV) Cite as: arXiv:2207.06004 [eess.IV] (or arXiv:2207.06004v1 [eess.IV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2207.06004 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2022.3191473 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Michalina Pacholska [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 13 Jul 2022 07:22:34 UTC (32,995 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Lippmann Photography: A Signal Processing Perspective, by Gilles Baechler and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.IV < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-07 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
