<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A* Orthogonal Matching Pursuit: Best-First Search for Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0396v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:49.140960+00:00

## Notes

[1009.0396v3] A* Orthogonal Matching Pursuit: Best-First Search for Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1009.0396v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1009.0396v3 (cs) [Submitted on 2 Sep 2010 ( v1 ), last revised 14 Mar 2012 (this version, v3)] Title: A* Orthogonal Matching Pursuit: Best-First Search for Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery Authors: Nazim Burak Karahanoglu , Hakan Erdogan View a PDF of the paper titled A* Orthogonal Matching Pursuit: Best-First Search for Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery, by Nazim Burak Karahanoglu and Hakan Erdogan View PDF Abstract: Compressed sensing is a developing field aiming at reconstruction of sparse signals acquired in reduced dimensions, which make the recovery process under-determined. The required solution is the one with minimum $\ell_0$ norm due to sparsity, however it is not practical to solve the $\ell_0$ minimization problem. Commonly used techniques include $\ell_1$ minimization, such as Basis Pursuit (BP) and greedy pursuit algorithms such as Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP) and Subspace Pursuit (SP). This manuscript proposes a novel semi-greedy recovery approach, namely A* Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (A*OMP). A*OMP performs A* search to look for the sparsest solution on a tree whose paths grow similar to the Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP) algorithm. Paths on the tree are evaluated according to a cost function, which should compensate for different path lengths. For this purpose, three different auxiliary structures are defined, including novel dynamic ones. A*OMP also incorporates pruning techniques which enable practical applications of the algorithm. Moreover, the adjustable search parameters provide means for a complexity-accuracy trade-off. We demonstrate the reconstruction ability of the proposed scheme on both synthetically generated data and images using Gaussian and Bernoulli observation matrices, where A*OMP yields less reconstruction error and higher exact recovery frequency than BP, OMP and SP. Results also indicate that novel dynamic cost functions provide improved results as compared to a conventional choice. Comments: accepted for publication in Digital Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1009.0396 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1009.0396v3 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1009.0396 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Digital Signal Processing, Volume 22, Issue 4, 2012, Pages 555-568 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2012.03.003 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Nazim Burak Karahanoglu [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 2 Sep 2010 11:41:21 UTC (2,949 KB) [v2] Sat, 17 Sep 2011 12:06:19 UTC (2,949 KB) [v3] Wed, 14 Mar 2012 10:36:17 UTC (2,565 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A* Orthogonal Matching Pursuit: Best-First Search for Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery, by Nazim Burak Karahanoglu and Hakan Erdogan View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2010-09 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Nazim Burak Karahanoglu Hakan Erdogan export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
