<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Stereo InSE-NET: Stereo Audio Quality Predictor Transfer Learned from Mono InSE-NET

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.11666v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:28.185903+00:00

## Notes

[2209.11666v1] Stereo InSE-NET: Stereo Audio Quality Predictor Transfer Learned from Mono InSE-NET Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2209.11666v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2209.11666v1 (eess) [Submitted on 23 Sep 2022] Title: Stereo InSE-NET: Stereo Audio Quality Predictor Transfer Learned from Mono InSE-NET Authors: Arijit Biswas , Guanxin Jiang View a PDF of the paper titled Stereo InSE-NET: Stereo Audio Quality Predictor Transfer Learned from Mono InSE-NET, by Arijit Biswas and Guanxin Jiang View PDF Abstract: Automatic coded audio quality predictors are typically designed for evaluating single channels without considering any spatial aspects. With InSE-NET [1], we demonstrated mimicking a state-of-the-art coded audio quality metric (ViSQOL-v3 [2]) with deep neural networks (DNN) and subsequently improving it - completely with programmatically generated data. In this study, we take steps towards building a DNN-based coded stereo audio quality predictor and we propose an extension of the InSE-NET for handling stereo signals. The design considers stereo/spatial aspects by conditioning the model with left, right, mid, and side channels; and we name our model Stereo InSE-NET. By transferring selected weights from the pre-trained mono InSE-NET and retraining with both real and synthetically augmented listening tests, we demonstrate a significant improvement of 12% and 6% of Pearson and Spearman Rank correlation coefficient, respectively, over the latest ViSQOL-v3 [3]. Comments: Accepted to 153rd Audio Engineering Society (AES), New York, NY, USA, October 2022 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2209.11666 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2209.11666v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2209.11666 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Arijit Biswas [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 23 Sep 2022 15:52:33 UTC (320 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Stereo InSE-NET: Stereo Audio Quality Predictor Transfer Learned from Mono InSE-NET, by Arijit Biswas and Guanxin Jiang View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-09 Change to browse by: eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
