<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Sound event detection with audio-text models and heterogeneous temporal annotations

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2508.20703v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:32.239602+00:00

## Notes

[2508.20703v1] Sound event detection with audio-text models and heterogeneous temporal annotations Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2508.20703v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2508.20703v1 (eess) [Submitted on 28 Aug 2025] Title: Sound event detection with audio-text models and heterogeneous temporal annotations Authors: Manu Harju , Annamaria Mesaros View a PDF of the paper titled Sound event detection with audio-text models and heterogeneous temporal annotations, by Manu Harju and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Recent advances in generating synthetic captions based on audio and related metadata allow using the information contained in natural language as input for other audio tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel method to guide a sound event detection system with free-form text. We use machine-generated captions as complementary information to the strong labels for training, and evaluate the systems using different types of textual inputs. In addition, we study a scenario where only part of the training data has strong labels, and the rest of it only has temporally weak labels. Our findings show that synthetic captions improve the performance in both cases compared to the CRNN architecture typically used for sound event detection. On a dataset of 50 highly unbalanced classes, the PSDS-1 score increases from 0.223 to 0.277 when trained with strong labels, and from 0.166 to 0.218 when half of the training data has only weak labels. Comments: Accepted to IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA) 2025 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2508.20703 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2508.20703v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2508.20703 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Manu Harju [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 28 Aug 2025 12:21:34 UTC (126 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Sound event detection with audio-text models and heterogeneous temporal annotations, by Manu Harju and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-08 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
