<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Objective Measures of Perceptual Audio Quality Reviewed: An Evaluation of Their Application Domain Dependence

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2110.11438v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:09.713250+00:00

## Notes

[2110.11438v1] Objective Measures of Perceptual Audio Quality Reviewed: An Evaluation of Their Application Domain Dependence Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2110.11438v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2110.11438v1 (eess) [Submitted on 21 Oct 2021] Title: Objective Measures of Perceptual Audio Quality Reviewed: An Evaluation of Their Application Domain Dependence Authors: Matteo Torcoli , Thorsten Kastner , Jürgen Herre View a PDF of the paper titled Objective Measures of Perceptual Audio Quality Reviewed: An Evaluation of Their Application Domain Dependence, by Matteo Torcoli and Thorsten Kastner and J\"urgen Herre View PDF Abstract: Over the past few decades, computational methods have been developed to estimate perceptual audio quality. These methods, also referred to as objective quality measures, are usually developed and intended for a specific application domain. Because of their convenience, they are often used outside their original intended domain, even if it is unclear whether they provide reliable quality estimates in this case. This work studies the correlation of well-known state-of-the-art objective measures with human perceptual scores in two different domains: audio coding and source separation. The following objective measures are considered: fwSNRseg, dLLR, PESQ, PEAQ, POLQA, PEMO-Q, ViSQOLAudio, (SI-)BSSEval, PEASS, LKR-PI, 2f-model, and HAAQI. Additionally, a novel measure (SI-SA2f) is presented, based on the 2f-model and a BSSEval-based signal decomposition. We use perceptual scores from 7 listening tests about audio coding and 7 listening tests about source separation as ground-truth data for the correlation analysis. The results show that one method (2f-model) performs significantly better than the others on both domains and indicate that the dataset for training the method and a robust underlying auditory model are crucial factors towards a universal, domain-independent objective measure. Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2110.11438 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2110.11438v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2110.11438 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO, SPEECH, AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 29, 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2021.3069302 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Matteo Torcoli [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 21 Oct 2021 19:15:36 UTC (1,559 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Objective Measures of Perceptual Audio Quality Reviewed: An Evaluation of Their Application Domain Dependence, by Matteo Torcoli and Thorsten Kastner and J\"urgen Herre View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
