<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Asymptotic Performance Prediction for ADMM-Based Compressed Sensing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2009.08545v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:15.402097+00:00

## Notes

[2009.08545v2] Asymptotic Performance Prediction for ADMM-Based Compressed Sensing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2009.08545v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2009.08545v2 (eess) [Submitted on 17 Sep 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 26 Oct 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Asymptotic Performance Prediction for ADMM-Based Compressed Sensing Authors: Ryo Hayakawa View a PDF of the paper titled Asymptotic Performance Prediction for ADMM-Based Compressed Sensing, by Ryo Hayakawa View PDF Abstract: In this paper, we propose a method to predict the asymptotic performance of the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM) for compressed sensing, where we reconstruct an unknown structured signal from its underdetermined linear measurements. The derivation of the proposed method is based on the recently developed convex Gaussian min-max theorem (CGMT), which can be applied to various convex optimization problems to obtain its asymptotic error performance. Our main idea is to analyze the convex subproblem in the update of ADMM iteratively and characterize the asymptotic distribution of the tentative estimate obtained at each iteration. However, since the original CGMT cannot be used directly for the analysis of the iterative updates, we intuitively assume an extended version of CGMT in the derivation of the proposed method. Under the assumption, the result shows that the update equations in ADMM can be decoupled into a scalar-valued stochastic process in the asymptotic regime with the large system limit. From the asymptotic result, we can predict the evolution of the error (e.g., mean-square-error (MSE) and symbol error rate (SER)) in ADMM for large-scale compressed sensing problems. Simulation results show that the empirical performance of ADMM and its prediction are close to each other in sparse vector reconstruction and binary vector reconstruction. Comments: accepted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:2009.08545 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2009.08545v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2009.08545 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 70, pp. 5194-5207, 2022 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2022.3217917 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Ryo Hayakawa [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 17 Sep 2020 22:02:10 UTC (793 KB) [v2] Wed, 26 Oct 2022 08:51:30 UTC (2,468 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Asymptotic Performance Prediction for ADMM-Based Compressed Sensing, by Ryo Hayakawa View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT eess math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
