<!-- source_type: articles -->
# BYOL for Audio: Exploring Pre-trained General-purpose Audio Representations

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2204.07402v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:48.507460+00:00

## Notes

[2204.07402v2] BYOL for Audio: Exploring Pre-trained General-purpose Audio Representations Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2204.07402v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2204.07402v2 (eess) [Submitted on 15 Apr 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 16 Jun 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: BYOL for Audio: Exploring Pre-trained General-purpose Audio Representations Authors: Daisuke Niizumi , Daiki Takeuchi , Yasunori Ohishi , Noboru Harada , Kunio Kashino View a PDF of the paper titled BYOL for Audio: Exploring Pre-trained General-purpose Audio Representations, by Daisuke Niizumi and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Pre-trained models are essential as feature extractors in modern machine learning systems in various domains. In this study, we hypothesize that representations effective for general audio tasks should provide multiple aspects of robust features of the input sound. For recognizing sounds regardless of perturbations such as varying pitch or timbre, features should be robust to these perturbations. For serving the diverse needs of tasks such as recognition of emotions or music genres, representations should provide multiple aspects of information, such as local and global features. To implement our principle, we propose a self-supervised learning method: Bootstrap Your Own Latent (BYOL) for Audio (BYOL-A, pronounced "viola"). BYOL-A pre-trains representations of the input sound invariant to audio data augmentations, which makes the learned representations robust to the perturbations of sounds. Whereas the BYOL-A encoder combines local and global features and calculates their statistics to make the representation provide multi-aspect information. As a result, the learned representations should provide robust and multi-aspect information to serve various needs of diverse tasks. We evaluated the general audio task performance of BYOL-A compared to previous state-of-the-art methods, and BYOL-A demonstrated generalizability with the best average result of 72.4% and the best VoxCeleb1 result of 57.6%. Extensive ablation experiments revealed that the BYOL-A encoder architecture contributes to most performance, and the final critical portion resorts to the BYOL framework and BYOL-A augmentations. Our code is available online at this https URL for future studies. Comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, and 15 tables. Under the review process Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) MSC classes: 68T07 Cite as: arXiv:2204.07402 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2204.07402v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2204.07402 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE/ACM Trans. Audio, Speech, Language Process. 31 (2023) 137-151 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2022.3221007 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Daisuke Niizumi [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 15 Apr 2022 09:44:10 UTC (1,769 KB) [v2] Thu, 16 Jun 2022 05:25:12 UTC (3,332 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled BYOL for Audio: Exploring Pre-trained General-purpose Audio Representations, by Daisuke Niizumi and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
