<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Reduced-Dimension Linear Transform Coding of Correlated Signals in Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6299v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:27.289413+00:00

## Notes

[1202.6299v1] Reduced-Dimension Linear Transform Coding of Correlated Signals in Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1202.6299v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1202.6299v1 (cs) [Submitted on 28 Feb 2012] Title: Reduced-Dimension Linear Transform Coding of Correlated Signals in Networks Authors: Naveen Goela , Michael Gastpar View a PDF of the paper titled Reduced-Dimension Linear Transform Coding of Correlated Signals in Networks, by Naveen Goela and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: A model, called the linear transform network (LTN), is proposed to analyze the compression and estimation of correlated signals transmitted over directed acyclic graphs (DAGs). An LTN is a DAG network with multiple source and receiver nodes. Source nodes transmit subspace projections of random correlated signals by applying reduced-dimension linear transforms. The subspace projections are linearly processed by multiple relays and routed to intended receivers. Each receiver applies a linear estimator to approximate a subset of the sources with minimum mean squared error (MSE) distortion. The model is extended to include noisy networks with power constraints on transmitters. A key task is to compute all local compression matrices and linear estimators in the network to minimize end-to-end distortion. The non-convex problem is solved iteratively within an optimization framework using constrained quadratic programs (QPs). The proposed algorithm recovers as special cases the regular and distributed Karhunen-Loeve transforms (KLTs). Cut-set lower bounds on the distortion region of multi-source, multi-receiver networks are given for linear coding based on convex relaxations. Cut-set lower bounds are also given for any coding strategy based on information theory. The distortion region and compression-estimation tradeoffs are illustrated for different communication demands (e.g. multiple unicast), and graph structures. Comments: 33 pages, 7 figures, To appear in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1202.6299 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1202.6299v1 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1202.6299 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 60, no. 6, pp. 3174-3187, June 2012 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2012.2188716 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Naveen Goela [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 28 Feb 2012 17:37:03 UTC (1,204 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Reduced-Dimension Linear Transform Coding of Correlated Signals in Networks, by Naveen Goela and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2012-02 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Naveen Goela Michael Gastpar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
