<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Adversarial Audio Synthesis with Complex-valued Polynomial Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.06811v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:59.949980+00:00

## Notes

[2206.06811v2] Adversarial Audio Synthesis with Complex-valued Polynomial Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2206.06811v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2206.06811v2 (eess) [Submitted on 14 Jun 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 21 Jun 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Adversarial Audio Synthesis with Complex-valued Polynomial Networks Authors: Yongtao Wu , Grigorios G Chrysos , Volkan Cevher View a PDF of the paper titled Adversarial Audio Synthesis with Complex-valued Polynomial Networks, by Yongtao Wu and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Time-frequency (TF) representations in audio synthesis have been increasingly modeled with real-valued networks. However, overlooking the complex-valued nature of TF representations can result in suboptimal performance and require additional modules (e.g., for modeling the phase). To this end, we introduce complex-valued polynomial networks, called APOLLO, that integrate such complex-valued representations in a natural way. Concretely, APOLLO captures high-order correlations of the input elements using high-order tensors as scaling parameters. By leveraging standard tensor decompositions, we derive different architectures and enable modeling richer correlations. We outline such architectures and showcase their performance in audio generation across four benchmarks. As a highlight, APOLLO results in $17.5\%$ improvement over adversarial methods and $8.2\%$ over the state-of-the-art diffusion models on SC09 dataset in audio generation. Our models can encourage the systematic design of other efficient architectures on the complex field. Comments: Accepted as oral presentation in Workshop on Machine Learning for Audio Synthesis at ICML 2022 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:2206.06811 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2206.06811v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2206.06811 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Yongtao Wu [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 14 Jun 2022 12:58:59 UTC (10,917 KB) [v2] Tue, 21 Jun 2022 13:30:18 UTC (10,918 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Adversarial Audio Synthesis with Complex-valued Polynomial Networks, by Yongtao Wu and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
