<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Past and Future Motion Guided Network for Audio Visual Event Localization

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2205.03802v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:54.302409+00:00

## Notes

[2205.03802v1] Past and Future Motion Guided Network for Audio Visual Event Localization Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2205.03802v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition arXiv:2205.03802v1 (cs) [Submitted on 8 May 2022] Title: Past and Future Motion Guided Network for Audio Visual Event Localization Authors: Tingxiu Chen , Jianqin Yin , Jin Tang View a PDF of the paper titled Past and Future Motion Guided Network for Audio Visual Event Localization, by Tingxiu Chen and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: In recent years, audio-visual event localization has attracted much attention. It's purpose is to detect the segment containing audio-visual events and recognize the event category from untrimmed videos. Existing methods use audio-guided visual attention to lead the model pay attention to the spatial area of the ongoing event, devoting to the correlation between audio and visual information but ignoring the correlation between audio and spatial motion. We propose a past and future motion extraction (pf-ME) module to mine the visual motion from videos ,embedded into the past and future motion guided network (PFAGN), and motion guided audio attention (MGAA) module to achieve focusing on the information related to interesting events in audio modality through the past and future visual motion. We choose AVE as the experimental verification dataset and the experiments show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-arts in both supervised and weakly-supervised settings. Comments: event localization, multi-modal learning, audio-visual learning, audio attention, motion extraction Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) Cite as: arXiv:2205.03802 [cs.CV] (or arXiv:2205.03802v1 [cs.CV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2205.03802 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Tingxiu Chen [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 8 May 2022 07:26:43 UTC (1,985 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Past and Future Motion Guided Network for Audio Visual Event Localization, by Tingxiu Chen and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CV < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-05 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
