<!-- source_type: articles -->
# BINAQUAL: A Full-Reference Objective Localization Similarity Metric for Binaural Audio

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.11915v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:38.463939+00:00

## Notes

[2505.11915v2] BINAQUAL: A Full-Reference Objective Localization Similarity Metric for Binaural Audio Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2505.11915v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2505.11915v2 (eess) [Submitted on 17 May 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Oct 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: BINAQUAL: A Full-Reference Objective Localization Similarity Metric for Binaural Audio Authors: Davoud Shariat Panah , Dan Barry , Alessandro Ragano , Jan Skoglund , Andrew Hines View a PDF of the paper titled BINAQUAL: A Full-Reference Objective Localization Similarity Metric for Binaural Audio, by Davoud Shariat Panah and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Spatial audio enhances immersion in applications such as virtual reality, augmented reality, gaming, and cinema by creating a three-dimensional auditory experience. Ensuring the spatial fidelity of binaural audio is crucial, given that processes such as compression, encoding, or transmission can alter localization cues. While subjective listening tests like MUSHRA remain the gold standard for evaluating spatial localization quality, they are costly and time-consuming. This paper introduces BINAQUAL, a full-reference objective metric designed to assess localization similarity in binaural audio recordings. BINAQUAL adapts the AMBIQUAL metric, originally developed for localization quality assessment in ambisonics audio format to the binaural domain. We evaluate BINAQUAL across five key research questions, examining its sensitivity to variations in sound source locations, angle interpolations, surround speaker layouts, audio degradations, and content diversity. Results demonstrate that BINAQUAL effectively differentiates between subtle spatial variations and correlates strongly with subjective listening tests, making it a reliable metric for binaural localization quality assessment. The proposed metric provides a robust benchmark for ensuring spatial accuracy in binaural audio processing, paving the way for improved objective evaluations in immersive audio applications. Comments: Accepted for publication in the Journal of Audio Engineering Society (JAES) Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2505.11915 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2505.11915v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.11915 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Davoud Shariat Panah [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 17 May 2025 08:59:39 UTC (3,880 KB) [v2] Sun, 19 Oct 2025 21:06:30 UTC (4,290 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled BINAQUAL: A Full-Reference Objective Localization Similarity Metric for Binaural Audio, by Davoud Shariat Panah and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
