<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multi Web Audio Sequencer: Collaborative Music Making

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.06717v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:36.860538+00:00

## Notes

[1905.06717v1] Multi Web Audio Sequencer: Collaborative Music Making Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1905.06717v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1905.06717v1 (cs) [Submitted on 16 May 2019] Title: Multi Web Audio Sequencer: Collaborative Music Making Authors: Xavier Favory , Xavier Serra View a PDF of the paper titled Multi Web Audio Sequencer: Collaborative Music Making, by Xavier Favory and Xavier Serra View PDF Abstract: Recent advancements in web-based audio systems have enabled sufficiently accurate timing control and real-time sound processing capabilities. Numerous specialized music tools, as well as digital audio workstations, are now accessible from browsers. Features such as the large accessibility of data and real-time communication between clients make the web attractive for collaborative data manipulation. However, this innovative field has yet to produce effective tools for multiple-user coordination on specialized music creation tasks. The Multi Web Audio Sequencer is a prototype of an application for segment-based sequencing of Freesound sound clips, with an emphasis on seamless remote collaboration. In this work we consider a fixed-grid step sequencer as a probe for understanding the necessary features of crowd-shared music creation sessions. This manuscript describes the sequencer and the functionalities and types of interactions required for effective and attractive collaboration of remote people during creative music creation activities. Comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, short paper of the Web Audio Conference 2018 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1905.06717 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1905.06717v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1905.06717 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Xavier Favory [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 16 May 2019 13:10:26 UTC (174 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multi Web Audio Sequencer: Collaborative Music Making, by Xavier Favory and Xavier Serra View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.HC eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Xavier Favory Xavier Serra export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
