<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Topological Signal Processing Over Cell MultiComplexes Via Cross-Laplacian Operators

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2510.09139v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:47.931036+00:00

## Notes

[2510.09139v1] Topological Signal Processing Over Cell MultiComplexes Via Cross-Laplacian Operators Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2510.09139v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2510.09139v1 (eess) [Submitted on 10 Oct 2025] Title: Topological Signal Processing Over Cell MultiComplexes Via Cross-Laplacian Operators Authors: Stefania Sardellitti , Breno C. Bispo , Fernando A. N. Santos , Juliano B. Lima View a PDF of the paper titled Topological Signal Processing Over Cell MultiComplexes Via Cross-Laplacian Operators, by Stefania Sardellitti and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: One of the key challenges in many research fields is uncovering how different interconnected systems interact within complex networks, typically represented as multi-layer networks. Capturing the intra- and cross-layer interactions among different domains for analysis and processing calls for topological algebraic descriptors capable of localizing the homologies of different domains, at different scales, according to the learning task. Our first contribution in this paper is to introduce the Cell MultiComplexes (CMCs), which are novel topological spaces that enable the representation of higher-order interactions among interconnected cell complexes. We introduce cross-Laplacian operators as powerful algebraic descriptors of CMC spaces able to capture different topological invariants, whether global or local, at different resolutions. Using the eigenvectors of these operators as bases for the signal representation, we develop topological signal processing tools for signals defined over CMCs. Then, we focus on the signal spectral representation and on the filtering of noisy flows observed over the cross-edges between different layers of CMCs. We show that a local signal representation based on cross-Laplacians yields a better sparsity/accuracy trade-off compared to monocomplex representations, which provide overcomplete representation of local signals. Finally, we illustrate a topology learning strategy designed to infer second-order cross-cells between layers, with applications to brain networks for encoding inter-module connectivity patterns. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, August 2025 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2510.09139 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2510.09139v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2510.09139 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Stefania Sardellitti [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 10 Oct 2025 08:38:17 UTC (1,528 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Topological Signal Processing Over Cell MultiComplexes Via Cross-Laplacian Operators, by Stefania Sardellitti and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-10 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
