<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Beyond Equal-Length Snippets: How Long is Sufficient to Recognize an Audio Scene?

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1811.01095v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:56.564671+00:00

## Notes

[1811.01095v2] Beyond Equal-Length Snippets: How Long is Sufficient to Recognize an Audio Scene? Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1811.01095v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1811.01095v2 (cs) [Submitted on 2 Nov 2018 ( v1 ), last revised 8 May 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: Beyond Equal-Length Snippets: How Long is Sufficient to Recognize an Audio Scene? Authors: Huy Phan , Oliver Y. Chén , Philipp Koch , Lam Pham , Ian McLoughlin , Alfred Mertins , Maarten De Vos View a PDF of the paper titled Beyond Equal-Length Snippets: How Long is Sufficient to Recognize an Audio Scene?, by Huy Phan and 6 other authors View PDF Abstract: Due to the variability in characteristics of audio scenes, some scenes can naturally be recognized earlier than others. In this work, rather than using equal-length snippets for all scene categories, as is common in the literature, we study to which temporal extent an audio scene can be reliably recognized given state-of-the-art models. Moreover, as model fusion with deep network ensemble is prevalent in audio scene classification, we further study whether, and if so, when model fusion is necessary for this task. To achieve these goals, we employ two single-network systems relying on a convolutional neural network and a recurrent neural network for classification as well as early fusion and late fusion of these networks. Experimental results on the LITIS-Rouen dataset show that some scenes can be reliably recognized with a few seconds while other scenes require significantly longer durations. In addition, model fusion is shown to be the most beneficial when the signal length is short. Comments: Accepted to 2019 AES Conference on Audio Forensics Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1811.01095 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1811.01095v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1811.01095 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Huy Phan [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 2 Nov 2018 21:22:58 UTC (2,597 KB) [v2] Wed, 8 May 2019 19:00:37 UTC (1,863 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Beyond Equal-Length Snippets: How Long is Sufficient to Recognize an Audio Scene?, by Huy Phan and 6 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Huy Phan Oliver Y. Chén Philipp Koch Lam Dang Pham Ian McLoughlin … export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
