<!-- source_type: articles -->
# From Nodes to Edges: Edge-Based Laplacians for Brain Signal Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.13420v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:10.491861+00:00

## Notes

[2512.13420v1] From Nodes to Edges: Edge-Based Laplacians for Brain Signal Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2512.13420v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2512.13420v1 (eess) [Submitted on 15 Dec 2025] Title: From Nodes to Edges: Edge-Based Laplacians for Brain Signal Processing Authors: Andrea Santoro , Marco Nurisso , Giovanni Petri View a PDF of the paper titled From Nodes to Edges: Edge-Based Laplacians for Brain Signal Processing, by Andrea Santoro and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Traditional graph signal processing (GSP) methods applied to brain networks focus on signals defined on the nodes. Thus, they are unable to capture potentially important dynamics occurring on the edges. In this work, we adopt an edge-centric GSP approach to analyze edge signals constructed from 100 unrelated subjects of the Human Connectome Project. Specifically, we describe structural connectivity through the lens of the 1-dimensional Hodge Laplacian, processing signals defined on edges to capture co-fluctuation information between brain regions. We demonstrate that edge-based approaches achieve superior task decoding accuracy in static and dynamic scenarios compared to conventional node-based techniques, thereby unveiling unique aspects of brain functional organization. These findings underscore the promise of edge-focused GSP strategies for deepening our understanding of brain connectivity and functional dynamics. Comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, Accepted at the 33rd European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO 2025) Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph) Cite as: arXiv:2512.13420 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2512.13420v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2512.13420 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.23919/EUSIPCO63237.2025.11226642 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Andrea Santoro [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 15 Dec 2025 15:13:35 UTC (8,501 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled From Nodes to Edges: Edge-Based Laplacians for Brain Signal Processing, by Andrea Santoro and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-12 Change to browse by: eess physics physics.soc-ph References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
