<!-- source_type: articles -->
# LD-LAudio-V1: Video-to-Long-Form-Audio Generation Extension with Dual Lightweight Adapters

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2508.11074v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:47.291258+00:00

## Notes

[2508.11074v1] LD-LAudio-V1: Video-to-Long-Form-Audio Generation Extension with Dual Lightweight Adapters Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2508.11074v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2508.11074v1 (cs) [Submitted on 14 Aug 2025] Title: LD-LAudio-V1: Video-to-Long-Form-Audio Generation Extension with Dual Lightweight Adapters Authors: Haomin Zhang , Kristin Qi , Shuxin Yang , Zihao Chen , Chaofan Ding , Xinhan Di View a PDF of the paper titled LD-LAudio-V1: Video-to-Long-Form-Audio Generation Extension with Dual Lightweight Adapters, by Haomin Zhang and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Generating high-quality and temporally synchronized audio from video content is essential for video editing and post-production tasks, enabling the creation of semantically aligned audio for silent videos. However, most existing approaches focus on short-form audio generation for video segments under 10 seconds or rely on noisy datasets for long-form video-to-audio zsynthesis. To address these limitations, we introduce LD-LAudio-V1, an extension of state-of-the-art video-to-audio models and it incorporates dual lightweight adapters to enable long-form audio generation. In addition, we release a clean and human-annotated video-to-audio dataset that contains pure sound effects without noise or artifacts. Our method significantly reduces splicing artifacts and temporal inconsistencies while maintaining computational efficiency. Compared to direct fine-tuning with short training videos, LD-LAudio-V1 achieves significant improvements across multiple metrics: $FD_{\text{passt}}$ 450.00 $\rightarrow$ 327.29 (+27.27%), $FD_{\text{panns}}$ 34.88 $\rightarrow$ 22.68 (+34.98%), $FD_{\text{vgg}}$ 3.75 $\rightarrow$ 1.28 (+65.87%), $KL_{\text{panns}}$ 2.49 $\rightarrow$ 2.07 (+16.87%), $KL_{\text{passt}}$ 1.78 $\rightarrow$ 1.53 (+14.04%), $IS_{\text{panns}}$ 4.17 $\rightarrow$ 4.30 (+3.12%), $IB_{\text{score}}$ 0.25 $\rightarrow$ 0.28 (+12.00%), $Energy\Delta10\text{ms}$ 0.3013 $\rightarrow$ 0.1349 (+55.23%), $Energy\Delta10\text{ms( this http URL )}$ 0.0531 $\rightarrow$ 0.0288 (+45.76%), and $Sem.\,Rel.$ 2.73 $\rightarrow$ 3.28 (+20.15%). Our dataset aims to facilitate further research in long-form video-to-audio generation and is available at this https URL . Comments: Gen4AVC@ICCV: 1st Workshop on Generative AI for Audio-Visual Content Creation Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2508.11074 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2508.11074v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2508.11074 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Kristin Qi [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 14 Aug 2025 21:11:57 UTC (30,947 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled LD-LAudio-V1: Video-to-Long-Form-Audio Generation Extension with Dual Lightweight Adapters, by Haomin Zhang and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.CV eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
