<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Style Transfer of Audio Effects with Differentiable Signal Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.08759v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:38.947881+00:00

## Notes

[2207.08759v1] Style Transfer of Audio Effects with Differentiable Signal Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2207.08759v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2207.08759v1 (cs) [Submitted on 18 Jul 2022] Title: Style Transfer of Audio Effects with Differentiable Signal Processing Authors: Christian J. Steinmetz , Nicholas J. Bryan , Joshua D. Reiss View a PDF of the paper titled Style Transfer of Audio Effects with Differentiable Signal Processing, by Christian J. Steinmetz and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: We present a framework that can impose the audio effects and production style from one recording to another by example with the goal of simplifying the audio production process. We train a deep neural network to analyze an input recording and a style reference recording, and predict the control parameters of audio effects used to render the output. In contrast to past work, we integrate audio effects as differentiable operators in our framework, perform backpropagation through audio effects, and optimize end-to-end using an audio-domain loss. We use a self-supervised training strategy enabling automatic control of audio effects without the use of any labeled or paired training data. We survey a range of existing and new approaches for differentiable signal processing, showing how each can be integrated into our framework while discussing their trade-offs. We evaluate our approach on both speech and music tasks, demonstrating that our approach generalizes both to unseen recordings and even to sample rates different than those seen during training. Our approach produces convincing production style transfer results with the ability to transform input recordings to produced recordings, yielding audio effect control parameters that enable interpretability and user interaction. Comments: Preprint. To appear in the Journal of the Audio Engineering Society Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2207.08759 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2207.08759v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2207.08759 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Christian Steinmetz [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 18 Jul 2022 17:06:19 UTC (1,999 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Style Transfer of Audio Effects with Differentiable Signal Processing, by Christian J. Steinmetz and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-07 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
