<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Speaker Distance Estimation in Enclosures from Single-Channel Audio

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17514v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:04.776266+00:00

## Notes

[2403.17514v1] Speaker Distance Estimation in Enclosures from Single-Channel Audio Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2403.17514v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2403.17514v1 (eess) [Submitted on 26 Mar 2024] Title: Speaker Distance Estimation in Enclosures from Single-Channel Audio Authors: Michael Neri , Archontis Politis , Daniel Krause , Marco Carli , Tuomas Virtanen View a PDF of the paper titled Speaker Distance Estimation in Enclosures from Single-Channel Audio, by Michael Neri and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Distance estimation from audio plays a crucial role in various applications, such as acoustic scene analysis, sound source localization, and room modeling. Most studies predominantly center on employing a classification approach, where distances are discretized into distinct categories, enabling smoother model training and achieving higher accuracy but imposing restrictions on the precision of the obtained sound source position. Towards this direction, in this paper we propose a novel approach for continuous distance estimation from audio signals using a convolutional recurrent neural network with an attention module. The attention mechanism enables the model to focus on relevant temporal and spectral features, enhancing its ability to capture fine-grained distance-related information. To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed method, we conduct extensive experiments using audio recordings in controlled environments with three levels of realism (synthetic room impulse response, measured response with convolved speech, and real recordings) on four datasets (our synthetic dataset, QMULTIMIT, VoiceHome-2, and STARSS23). Experimental results show that the model achieves an absolute error of 0.11 meters in a noiseless synthetic scenario. Moreover, the results showed an absolute error of about 1.30 meters in the hybrid scenario. The algorithm's performance in the real scenario, where unpredictable environmental factors and noise are prevalent, yields an absolute error of approximately 0.50 meters. For reproducible research purposes we make model, code, and synthetic datasets available at this https URL . Comments: Accepted for publication in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2403.17514 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2403.17514v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2403.17514 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2024.3382504 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Archontis Politis [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 26 Mar 2024 09:16:21 UTC (2,863 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Speaker Distance Estimation in Enclosures from Single-Channel Audio, by Michael Neri and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-03 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
