<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Optimization and Learning with Information Streams: Time-varying Algorithms and Applications

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.08123v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:35.276540+00:00

## Notes

[1910.08123v2] Optimization and Learning with Information Streams: Time-varying Algorithms and Applications Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > math > arXiv:1910.08123v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Mathematics > Optimization and Control arXiv:1910.08123v2 (math) [Submitted on 17 Oct 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 16 Jan 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: Optimization and Learning with Information Streams: Time-varying Algorithms and Applications Authors: Emiliano Dall'Anese , Andrea Simonetto , Stephen Becker , Liam Madden View a PDF of the paper titled Optimization and Learning with Information Streams: Time-varying Algorithms and Applications, by Emiliano Dall'Anese and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: There is a growing cross-disciplinary effort in the broad domain of optimization and learning with streams of data, applied to settings where traditional batch optimization techniques cannot produce solutions at time scales that match the inter-arrival times of the data points due to computational and/or communication bottlenecks. Special types of online algorithms can handle this situation, and this article focuses on such time-varying optimization algorithms, with emphasis on Machine Leaning and Signal Processing, as well as data-driven Control. Approaches for the design of time-varying or online first-order optimization methods are discussed, with emphasis on algorithms that can handle errors in the gradient, as may arise when the gradient is estimated. Insights on performance metrics and accompanying claims are provided, along with evidence of cases where algorithms that are provably convergent in batch optimization may perform poorly in an online regime. The role of distributed computation is discussed. Illustrative numerical examples for a number of applications of broad interest are provided to convey key ideas. Comments: Accepted for publication in IEEE Signal Processing Magazine. Limit of 40 references Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1910.08123 [math.OC] (or arXiv:1910.08123v2 [math.OC] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1910.08123 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, May 2020 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2020.2968813 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Emiliano Dall'Anese [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 17 Oct 2019 19:29:47 UTC (2,066 KB) [v2] Thu, 16 Jan 2020 17:21:35 UTC (2,067 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Optimization and Learning with Information Streams: Time-varying Algorithms and Applications, by Emiliano Dall'Anese and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: math.OC < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.SP math References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
