<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Ontology-aware Learning and Evaluation for Audio Tagging

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.12195v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:11.671850+00:00

## Notes

[2211.12195v1] Ontology-aware Learning and Evaluation for Audio Tagging Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2211.12195v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2211.12195v1 (eess) [Submitted on 22 Nov 2022] Title: Ontology-aware Learning and Evaluation for Audio Tagging Authors: Haohe Liu , Qiuqiang Kong , Xubo Liu , Xinhao Mei , Wenwu Wang , Mark D. Plumbley View a PDF of the paper titled Ontology-aware Learning and Evaluation for Audio Tagging, by Haohe Liu and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: This study defines a new evaluation metric for audio tagging tasks to overcome the limitation of the conventional mean average precision (mAP) metric, which treats different kinds of sound as independent classes without considering their relations. Also, due to the ambiguities in sound labeling, the labels in the training and evaluation set are not guaranteed to be accurate and exhaustive, which poses challenges for robust evaluation with mAP. The proposed metric, ontology-aware mean average precision (OmAP) addresses the weaknesses of mAP by utilizing the AudioSet ontology information during the evaluation. Specifically, we reweight the false positive events in the model prediction based on the ontology graph distance to the target classes. The OmAP measure also provides more insights into model performance by evaluations with different coarse-grained levels in the ontology graph. We conduct human evaluations and demonstrate that OmAP is more consistent with human perception than mAP. To further verify the importance of utilizing the ontology information, we also propose a novel loss function (OBCE) that reweights binary cross entropy (BCE) loss based on the ontology distance. Our experiment shows that OBCE can improve both mAP and OmAP metrics on the AudioSet tagging task. Comments: Submitted to ICASSP 2023. The code is open-sourced at this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2211.12195 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2211.12195v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2211.12195 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proc. Interspeech 2023 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.21437/Interspeech.2023-979 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Haohe Liu [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 22 Nov 2022 11:35:14 UTC (2,679 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Ontology-aware Learning and Evaluation for Audio Tagging, by Haohe Liu and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.LG cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
