<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Large Graph Signal Denoising with Application to Differential Privacy

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.02043v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:38.400387+00:00

## Notes

[2209.02043v1] Large Graph Signal Denoising with Application to Differential Privacy Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2209.02043v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2209.02043v1 (eess) [Submitted on 5 Sep 2022] Title: Large Graph Signal Denoising with Application to Differential Privacy Authors: Elie Chedemail , Basile de Loynes , Fabien Navarro , Baptiste Olivier View a PDF of the paper titled Large Graph Signal Denoising with Application to Differential Privacy, by Elie Chedemail and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Over the last decade, signal processing on graphs has become a very active area of research. Specifically, the number of applications, for instance in statistical or deep learning, using frames built from graphs, such as wavelets on graphs, has increased significantly. We consider in particular the case of signal denoising on graphs via a data-driven wavelet tight frame methodology. This adaptive approach is based on a threshold calibrated using Stein's unbiased risk estimate adapted to a tight-frame representation. We make it scalable to large graphs using Chebyshev-Jackson polynomial approximations, which allow fast computation of the wavelet coefficients, without the need to compute the Laplacian eigendecomposition. However, the overcomplete nature of the tight-frame, transforms a white noise into a correlated one. As a result, the covariance of the transformed noise appears in the divergence term of the SURE, thus requiring the computation and storage of the frame, which leads to an impractical calculation for large graphs. To estimate such covariance, we develop and analyze a Monte-Carlo strategy, based on the fast transformation of zero mean and unit variance random variables. This new data-driven denoising methodology finds a natural application in differential privacy. A comprehensive performance analysis is carried out on graphs of varying size, from real and simulated data. Comments: Accepted in IEEE Transactions on Signal and Information Processing over Networks Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Methodology (stat.ME); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:2209.02043 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2209.02043v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2209.02043 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal and Information Processing over Networks, vol. 8, pp. 788-798, 2022 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSIPN.2022.3205555 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Fabien Navarro [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 5 Sep 2022 16:32:54 UTC (56 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Large Graph Signal Denoising with Application to Differential Privacy, by Elie Chedemail and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-09 Change to browse by: eess stat stat.ME stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
