<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Novel Approach to Analyze Fashion Digital Archive from Humanities

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2107.08351v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:12.547112+00:00

## Notes

[2107.08351v2] A Novel Approach to Analyze Fashion Digital Archive from Humanities Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2107.08351v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Digital Libraries arXiv:2107.08351v2 (cs) [Submitted on 18 Jul 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 10 Sep 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: A Novel Approach to Analyze Fashion Digital Archive from Humanities Authors: Satoshi Takahashi , Keiko Yamaguchi , Asuka Watanabe View a PDF of the paper titled A Novel Approach to Analyze Fashion Digital Archive from Humanities, by Satoshi Takahashi and Keiko Yamaguchi and Asuka Watanabe View PDF Abstract: Fashion styles adopted every day are an important aspect of culture, and style trend analysis helps provide a deeper understanding of our societies and cultures. To analyze everyday fashion trends from the humanities perspective, we need a digital archive that includes images of what people wore in their daily lives over an extended period. In fashion research, building digital fashion image archives has attracted significant attention. However, the existing archives are not suitable for retrieving everyday fashion trends. In addition, to interpret how the trends emerge, we need non-fashion data sources relevant to why and how people choose fashion. In this study, we created a new fashion image archive called Chronicle Archive of Tokyo Street Fashion (CAT STREET) based on a review of the limitations in the existing digital fashion archives. CAT STREET includes images showing the clothing people wore in their daily lives during the period 1970--2017, which contain timestamps and street location annotations. We applied machine learning to CAT STREET and found two types of fashion trend patterns. Then, we demonstrated how magazine archives help us interpret how trend patterns emerge. These empirical analyses show our approach's potential to discover new perspectives to promote an understanding of our societies and cultures through fashion embedded in consumers' daily lives. Comments: In Proceedings of 'The 23rd International Conference on Asia-Pacific Digital Libraries' 17 pages, 8 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2009.13395 Subjects: Digital Libraries (cs.DL) Cite as: arXiv:2107.08351 [cs.DL] (or arXiv:2107.08351v2 [cs.DL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2107.08351 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: In International Conference on Asian Digital Libraries (pp. 179-194). Springer, Cham (2021) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-91669-5_15 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Satoshi Takahashi [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 18 Jul 2021 03:09:56 UTC (6,672 KB) [v2] Fri, 10 Sep 2021 12:03:23 UTC (8,310 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Novel Approach to Analyze Fashion Digital Archive from Humanities, by Satoshi Takahashi and Keiko Yamaguchi and Asuka Watanabe View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.DL < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-07 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Satoshi Takahashi export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
