<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Unified SVM Framework for Signal Estimation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5406v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:29.445448+00:00

## Notes

[1311.5406v1] A Unified SVM Framework for Signal Estimation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > stat > arXiv:1311.5406v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Statistics > Machine Learning arXiv:1311.5406v1 (stat) [Submitted on 21 Nov 2013] Title: A Unified SVM Framework for Signal Estimation Authors: José Luis Rojo-Álvarez , Manel Martínez-Ramón , Jordi Muñoz-Marí , Gustavo Camps-Valls View a PDF of the paper titled A Unified SVM Framework for Signal Estimation, by Jos\'e Luis Rojo-\'Alvarez and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper presents a unified framework to tackle estimation problems in Digital Signal Processing (DSP) using Support Vector Machines (SVMs). The use of SVMs in estimation problems has been traditionally limited to its mere use as a black-box model. Noting such limitations in the literature, we take advantage of several properties of Mercer's kernels and functional analysis to develop a family of SVM methods for estimation in DSP. Three types of signal model equations are analyzed. First, when a specific time-signal structure is assumed to model the underlying system that generated the data, the linear signal model (so called Primal Signal Model formulation) is first stated and analyzed. Then, non-linear versions of the signal structure can be readily developed by following two different approaches. On the one hand, the signal model equation is written in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces (RKHS) using the well-known RKHS Signal Model formulation, and Mercer's kernels are readily used in SVM non-linear algorithms. On the other hand, in the alternative and not so common Dual Signal Model formulation, a signal expansion is made by using an auxiliary signal model equation given by a non-linear regression of each time instant in the observed time series. These building blocks can be used to generate different novel SVM-based methods for problems of signal estimation, and we deal with several of the most important ones in DSP. We illustrate the usefulness of this methodology by defining SVM algorithms for linear and non-linear system identification, spectral analysis, nonuniform interpolation, sparse deconvolution, and array processing. The performance of the developed SVM methods is compared to standard approaches in all these settings. The experimental results illustrate the generality, simplicity, and capabilities of the proposed SVM framework for DSP. Comments: 22 pages, 13 figures. Digital Signal Processing, 2014 Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML) ; Applications (stat.AP) Cite as: arXiv:1311.5406 [stat.ML] (or arXiv:1311.5406v1 [stat.ML] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1311.5406 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Gustavo Camps-Valls [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 21 Nov 2013 13:55:22 UTC (1,905 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Unified SVM Framework for Signal Estimation, by Jos\'e Luis Rojo-\'Alvarez and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: stat.ML < prev | next > new | recent | 2013-11 Change to browse by: stat stat.AP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
