<!-- source_type: articles -->
# The Extended SONICOM HRTF Dataset and Spatial Audio Metrics Toolbox

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2507.05053v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:02.271277+00:00

## Notes

[2507.05053v2] The Extended SONICOM HRTF Dataset and Spatial Audio Metrics Toolbox Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2507.05053v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2507.05053v2 (eess) [Submitted on 7 Jul 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 1 Dec 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: The Extended SONICOM HRTF Dataset and Spatial Audio Metrics Toolbox Authors: Katarina C. Poole , Julie Meyer , Vincent Martin , Rapolas Daugintis , Nils Marggraf-Turley , Jack Webb , Ludovic Pirard , Nicola La Magna , Oliver Turvey , Lorenzo Picinali View a PDF of the paper titled The Extended SONICOM HRTF Dataset and Spatial Audio Metrics Toolbox, by Katarina C. Poole and 9 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Headphone-based spatial audio uses head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) to simulate real-world acoustic environments. HRTFs are unique to everyone, due to personal morphology, shaping how sound waves interact with the body before reaching the eardrums. Here we present the extended SONICOM HRTF dataset which expands on the previous version released in 2023. The total number of measured subjects has now been increased to 300, with demographic information for a subset of the participants, providing context for the dataset's population and relevance. The dataset incorporates synthesised HRTFs for 200 of the 300 subjects, generated using Mesh2HRTF, alongside pre-processed 3D scans of the head and ears, optimised for HRTF synthesis. This rich dataset facilitates rapid and iterative optimisation of HRTF synthesis algorithms, allowing the automatic generation of large data. The optimised scans enable seamless morphological modifications, providing insights into how anatomical changes impact HRTFs, and the larger sample size enhances the effectiveness of machine learning approaches. To support analysis, we also introduce the Spatial Audio Metrics (SAM) Toolbox, a Python package designed for efficient analysis and visualisation of HRTF data, offering customisable tools for advanced research. Together, the extended dataset and toolbox offer a comprehensive resource for advancing personalised spatial audio research and development. Comments: For dataset: this https URL . For toolbox: this https URL . Conference: Forum Acusticum 2025 V2: Fixed clickable links in pdf Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2507.05053 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2507.05053v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.05053 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Katarina Poole [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 7 Jul 2025 14:38:24 UTC (718 KB) [v2] Mon, 1 Dec 2025 12:40:06 UTC (716 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled The Extended SONICOM HRTF Dataset and Spatial Audio Metrics Toolbox, by Katarina C. Poole and 9 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
