<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Data Lakes for Digital Humanities

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2012.02454v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:05.602127+00:00

## Notes

[2012.02454v1] Data Lakes for Digital Humanities Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2012.02454v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Databases arXiv:2012.02454v1 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Dec 2020] Title: Data Lakes for Digital Humanities Authors: Jérôme Darmont (ERIC), Cécile Favre (ERIC), Sabine Loudcher (ERIC), Camille Noûs View a PDF of the paper titled Data Lakes for Digital Humanities, by J\'er\^ome Darmont (ERIC) and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Traditional data in Digital Humanities projects bear various formats (structured, semi-structured, textual) and need substantial transformations (encoding and tagging, stemming, lemmatization, etc.) to be managed and analyzed. To fully master this process, we propose the use of data lakes as a solution to data siloing and big data variety problems. We describe data lake projects we currently run in close collaboration with researchers in humanities and social sciences and discuss the lessons learned running these projects. Comments: Data and Digital Humanities Track Subjects: Databases (cs.DB) Cite as: arXiv:2012.02454 [cs.DB] (or arXiv:2012.02454v1 [cs.DB] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2012.02454 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 2nd International Digital Tools & Uses Congress (DTUC 2020), Oct 2020, Hammamet, Tunisia. pp.38-41 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1145/3423603.3424004 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Jerome Darmont [ view email ] [via CCSD proxy] [v1] Fri, 4 Dec 2020 08:18:48 UTC (369 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Data Lakes for Digital Humanities, by J\'er\^ome Darmont (ERIC) and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.DB < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-12 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Jérôme Darmont Cécile Favre Sabine Loudcher export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
