<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Energy Efficiency of Distributed Signal Processing in Wireless Networks: A Cross-Layer Analysis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1507.05698v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:06.367182+00:00

## Notes

[1507.05698v2] Energy Efficiency of Distributed Signal Processing in Wireless Networks: A Cross-Layer Analysis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1507.05698v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1507.05698v2 (cs) [Submitted on 21 Jul 2015 ( v1 ), last revised 20 Oct 2015 (this version, v2)] Title: Energy Efficiency of Distributed Signal Processing in Wireless Networks: A Cross-Layer Analysis Authors: Giovanni Geraci , Matthias Wildemeersch , Tony Q. S. Quek View a PDF of the paper titled Energy Efficiency of Distributed Signal Processing in Wireless Networks: A Cross-Layer Analysis, by Giovanni Geraci and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: In order to meet the growing mobile data demand, future wireless networks will be equipped with a multitude of access points (APs). Besides the important implications for the energy consumption, the trend towards densification requires the development of decentralized and sustainable radio resource management techniques. It is critically important to understand how the distribution of signal processing operations affects the energy efficiency of wireless networks. In this paper, we provide a cross-layer framework to evaluate and compare the energy efficiency of wireless networks under different levels of distribution of the signal processing load: (i) hybrid, where the signal processing operations are shared between nodes and APs, (ii) centralized, where signal processing is entirely implemented at the APs, and (iii) fully distributed, where all operations are performed by the nodes. We find that in practical wireless networks, hybrid signal processing exhibits a significant energy efficiency gain over both centralized and fully distributed approaches. Comments: to appear in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1507.05698 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1507.05698v2 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1507.05698 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2015.2494865 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Giovanni Geraci [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 21 Jul 2015 03:58:12 UTC (1,631 KB) [v2] Tue, 20 Oct 2015 01:31:00 UTC (1,633 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Energy Efficiency of Distributed Signal Processing in Wireless Networks: A Cross-Layer Analysis, by Giovanni Geraci and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2015-07 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Giovanni Geraci Matthias Wildemeersch Tony Q. S. Quek export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
