<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Synthesizer Sound Matching Using Audio Spectrogram Transformers

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16643v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:26.679198+00:00

## Notes

[2407.16643v1] Synthesizer Sound Matching Using Audio Spectrogram Transformers Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2407.16643v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2407.16643v1 (eess) [Submitted on 23 Jul 2024] Title: Synthesizer Sound Matching Using Audio Spectrogram Transformers Authors: Fred Bruford , Frederik Blang , Shahan Nercessian View a PDF of the paper titled Synthesizer Sound Matching Using Audio Spectrogram Transformers, by Fred Bruford and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Systems for synthesizer sound matching, which automatically set the parameters of a synthesizer to emulate an input sound, have the potential to make the process of synthesizer programming faster and easier for novice and experienced musicians alike, whilst also affording new means of interaction with synthesizers. Considering the enormous variety of synthesizers in the marketplace, and the complexity of many of them, general-purpose sound matching systems that function with minimal knowledge or prior assumptions about the underlying synthesis architecture are particularly desirable. With this in mind, we introduce a synthesizer sound matching model based on the Audio Spectrogram Transformer. We demonstrate the viability of this model by training on a large synthetic dataset of randomly generated samples from the popular Massive synthesizer. We show that this model can reconstruct parameters of samples generated from a set of 16 parameters, highlighting its improved fidelity relative to multi-layer perceptron and convolutional neural network baselines. We also provide audio examples demonstrating the out-of-domain model performance in emulating vocal imitations, and sounds from other synthesizers and musical instruments. Comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Accepted to the 27th International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (DAFx24) Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2407.16643 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2407.16643v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.16643 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Shahan Nercessian [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 23 Jul 2024 16:58:14 UTC (291 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Synthesizer Sound Matching Using Audio Spectrogram Transformers, by Fred Bruford and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
