<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Time-Stampless Adaptive Nonuniform Sampling for Stochastic Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3774v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:41.196393+00:00

## Notes

[1110.3774v1] Time-Stampless Adaptive Nonuniform Sampling for Stochastic Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1110.3774v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1110.3774v1 (cs) [Submitted on 17 Oct 2011] Title: Time-Stampless Adaptive Nonuniform Sampling for Stochastic Signals Authors: Soheil Feizi , Vivek K Goyal , Muriel Medard View a PDF of the paper titled Time-Stampless Adaptive Nonuniform Sampling for Stochastic Signals, by Soheil Feizi and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a time-stampless adaptive nonuniform sampling (TANS) framework, in which time increments between samples are determined by a function of the $m$ most recent increments and sample values. Since only past samples are used in computing time increments, it is not necessary to save sampling times (time stamps) for use in the reconstruction process. We focus on two TANS schemes for discrete-time stochastic signals: a greedy method, and a method based on dynamic programming. We analyze the performances of these schemes by computing (or bounding) their trade-offs between sampling rate and expected reconstruction distortion for autoregressive and Markovian signals. Simulation results support the analysis of the sampling schemes. We show that, by opportunistically adapting to local signal characteristics, TANS may lead to improved power efficiency in some applications. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing (partially presented at Allerton 2010) Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1110.3774 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1110.3774v1 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1110.3774 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Trans. on Signal Processing, vol. 60, no. 10, pp. 5440-5450, October 2012 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2012.2208633 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Soheil Feizi [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 17 Oct 2011 19:29:39 UTC (647 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Time-Stampless Adaptive Nonuniform Sampling for Stochastic Signals, by Soheil Feizi and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2011-10 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Soheil Feizi-Khankandi Vivek K. Goyal Muriel Médard export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
