<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Microphone Array Signal Processing and Deep Learning for Speech Enhancement

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07215v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:24.836681+00:00

## Notes

[2501.07215v1] Microphone Array Signal Processing and Deep Learning for Speech Enhancement Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2501.07215v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2501.07215v1 (eess) [Submitted on 13 Jan 2025] Title: Microphone Array Signal Processing and Deep Learning for Speech Enhancement Authors: Reinhold Haeb-Umbach , Tomohiro Nakatani , Marc Delcroix , Christoph Boeddeker , Tsubasa Ochiai View a PDF of the paper titled Microphone Array Signal Processing and Deep Learning for Speech Enhancement, by Reinhold Haeb-Umbach and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Multi-channel acoustic signal processing is a well-established and powerful tool to exploit the spatial diversity between a target signal and non-target or noise sources for signal enhancement. However, the textbook solutions for optimal data-dependent spatial filtering rest on the knowledge of second-order statistical moments of the signals, which have traditionally been difficult to acquire. In this contribution, we compare model-based, purely data-driven, and hybrid approaches to parameter estimation and filtering, where the latter tries to combine the benefits of model-based signal processing and data-driven deep learning to overcome their individual deficiencies. We illustrate the underlying design principles with examples from noise reduction, source separation, and dereverberation. Comments: Accepted for IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2501.07215 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2501.07215v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2501.07215 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 41, no. 6, pp. 12-23, Nov. 2024 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2024.3451653 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Reinhold Haeb-Umbach [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 13 Jan 2025 11:13:47 UTC (2,413 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Microphone Array Signal Processing and Deep Learning for Speech Enhancement, by Reinhold Haeb-Umbach and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
