<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Near-Field Signal Processing: Unleashing the Power of Proximity

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11434v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:30.240422+00:00

## Notes

[2408.11434v2] Near-Field Signal Processing: Unleashing the Power of Proximity Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2408.11434v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2408.11434v2 (eess) [Submitted on 21 Aug 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 5 Jan 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Near-Field Signal Processing: Unleashing the Power of Proximity Authors: Ahmet M. Elbir , Özlem Tuğfe Demir , Kumar Vijay Mishra , Symeon Chatzinotas , Martin Haardt View a PDF of the paper titled Near-Field Signal Processing: Unleashing the Power of Proximity, by Ahmet M. Elbir and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: After nearly a century of specialized applications in optics, remote sensing, and acoustics, the near-field (NF) electromagnetic propagation zone is experiencing a resurgence in research interest. This renewed attention is fueled by the emergence of promising applications in various fields such as wireless communications, holography, medical imaging, and quantum-inspired systems. Signal processing within NF sensing and wireless communications environments entails addressing issues related to extended scatterers, range-dependent beampatterns, spherical wavefronts, mutual coupling effects, and the presence of both reactive and radiative fields. Recent investigations have focused on these aspects in the context of extremely large arrays and wide bandwidths, giving rise to novel challenges in channel estimation, beamforming, beam training, sensing, and localization. While NF optics has a longstanding history, advancements in NF phase retrieval techniques and their applications have lately garnered significant research attention. Similarly, utilizing NF localization with acoustic arrays represents a contemporary extension of established principles in NF acoustic array signal processing. This article aims to provide an overview of state-of-the-art signal processing techniques within the NF domain, offering a comprehensive perspective on recent advances in diverse applications. Comments: Accepted Paper in IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2408.11434 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2408.11434v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2408.11434 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ahmet M. Elbir [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 21 Aug 2024 08:44:21 UTC (5,154 KB) [v2] Sun, 5 Jan 2025 08:59:54 UTC (4,726 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Near-Field Signal Processing: Unleashing the Power of Proximity, by Ahmet M. Elbir and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT cs.SD eess eess.AS math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
