<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Unsupervised Musical Object Discovery from Audio

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07534v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:14.129369+00:00

## Notes

[2311.07534v2] Unsupervised Musical Object Discovery from Audio Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2311.07534v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2311.07534v2 (cs) [Submitted on 13 Nov 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 14 Nov 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Unsupervised Musical Object Discovery from Audio Authors: Joonsu Gha , Vincent Herrmann , Benjamin Grewe , Jürgen Schmidhuber , Anand Gopalakrishnan View a PDF of the paper titled Unsupervised Musical Object Discovery from Audio, by Joonsu Gha and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Current object-centric learning models such as the popular SlotAttention architecture allow for unsupervised visual scene decomposition. Our novel MusicSlots method adapts SlotAttention to the audio domain, to achieve unsupervised music decomposition. Since concepts of opacity and occlusion in vision have no auditory analogues, the softmax normalization of alpha masks in the decoders of visual object-centric models is not well-suited for decomposing audio objects. MusicSlots overcomes this problem. We introduce a spectrogram-based multi-object music dataset tailored to evaluate object-centric learning on western tonal music. MusicSlots achieves good performance on unsupervised note discovery and outperforms several established baselines on supervised note property prediction tasks. Comments: Accepted to Machine Learning for Audio Workshop, NeurIPS 2023 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2311.07534 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2311.07534v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.07534 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Joonsu Gha [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 13 Nov 2023 18:21:33 UTC (2,890 KB) [v2] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 08:15:25 UTC (2,890 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Unsupervised Musical Object Discovery from Audio, by Joonsu Gha and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
