<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio Mamba: Bidirectional State Space Model for Audio Representation Learning

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03344v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:37.515506+00:00

## Notes

[2406.03344v1] Audio Mamba: Bidirectional State Space Model for Audio Representation Learning Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2406.03344v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2406.03344v1 (cs) [Submitted on 5 Jun 2024] Title: Audio Mamba: Bidirectional State Space Model for Audio Representation Learning Authors: Mehmet Hamza Erol , Arda Senocak , Jiu Feng , Joon Son Chung View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Mamba: Bidirectional State Space Model for Audio Representation Learning, by Mehmet Hamza Erol and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Transformers have rapidly become the preferred choice for audio classification, surpassing methods based on CNNs. However, Audio Spectrogram Transformers (ASTs) exhibit quadratic scaling due to self-attention. The removal of this quadratic self-attention cost presents an appealing direction. Recently, state space models (SSMs), such as Mamba, have demonstrated potential in language and vision tasks in this regard. In this study, we explore whether reliance on self-attention is necessary for audio classification tasks. By introducing Audio Mamba (AuM), the first self-attention-free, purely SSM-based model for audio classification, we aim to address this question. We evaluate AuM on various audio datasets - comprising six different benchmarks - where it achieves comparable or better performance compared to well-established AST model. Comments: Code is available at this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2406.03344 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2406.03344v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2406.03344 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Arda Senocak [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 5 Jun 2024 15:00:59 UTC (393 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Mamba: Bidirectional State Space Model for Audio Representation Learning, by Mehmet Hamza Erol and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
