<!-- source_type: articles -->
# COALA: Co-Aligned Autoencoders for Learning Semantically Enriched Audio Representations

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2006.08386v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:43.585403+00:00

## Notes

[2006.08386v2] COALA: Co-Aligned Autoencoders for Learning Semantically Enriched Audio Representations Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2006.08386v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2006.08386v2 (cs) [Submitted on 15 Jun 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Jul 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: COALA: Co-Aligned Autoencoders for Learning Semantically Enriched Audio Representations Authors: Xavier Favory , Konstantinos Drossos , Tuomas Virtanen , Xavier Serra View a PDF of the paper titled COALA: Co-Aligned Autoencoders for Learning Semantically Enriched Audio Representations, by Xavier Favory and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Audio representation learning based on deep neural networks (DNNs) emerged as an alternative approach to hand-crafted features. For achieving high performance, DNNs often need a large amount of annotated data which can be difficult and costly to obtain. In this paper, we propose a method for learning audio representations, aligning the learned latent representations of audio and associated tags. Aligning is done by maximizing the agreement of the latent representations of audio and tags, using a contrastive loss. The result is an audio embedding model which reflects acoustic and semantic characteristics of sounds. We evaluate the quality of our embedding model, measuring its performance as a feature extractor on three different tasks (namely, sound event recognition, and music genre and musical instrument classification), and investigate what type of characteristics the model captures. Our results are promising, sometimes in par with the state-of-the-art in the considered tasks and the embeddings produced with our method are well correlated with some acoustic descriptors. Comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, workshop on Self-supervision in Audio and Speech at the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2020, Vienna, Austria Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:2006.08386 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2006.08386v2 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2006.08386 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Xavier Favory [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 15 Jun 2020 13:17:18 UTC (233 KB) [v2] Wed, 8 Jul 2020 08:33:42 UTC (234 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled COALA: Co-Aligned Autoencoders for Learning Semantically Enriched Audio Representations, by Xavier Favory and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Xavier Favory Konstantinos Drossos Tuomas Virtanen Xavier Serra export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
