<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Recovering Latent Signals from a Mixture of Measurements using a Gaussian Process Prior

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.05909v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:34.218236+00:00

## Notes

[1707.05909v1] Recovering Latent Signals from a Mixture of Measurements using a Gaussian Process Prior Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > stat > arXiv:1707.05909v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Statistics > Machine Learning arXiv:1707.05909v1 (stat) [Submitted on 19 Jul 2017] Title: Recovering Latent Signals from a Mixture of Measurements using a Gaussian Process Prior Authors: Felipe Tobar , Gonzalo Rios , Tomás Valdivia , Pablo Guerrero View a PDF of the paper titled Recovering Latent Signals from a Mixture of Measurements using a Gaussian Process Prior, by Felipe Tobar and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: In sensing applications, sensors cannot always measure the latent quantity of interest at the required resolution, sometimes they can only acquire a blurred version of it due the sensor's transfer function. To recover latent signals when only noisy mixed measurements of the signal are available, we propose the Gaussian process mixture of measurements (GPMM), which models the latent signal as a Gaussian process (GP) and allows us to perform Bayesian inference on such signal conditional to a set of noisy mixture of measurements. We describe how to train GPMM, that is, to find the hyperparameters of the GP and the mixing weights, and how to perform inference on the latent signal under GPMM; additionally, we identify the solution to the underdetermined linear system resulting from a sensing application as a particular case of GPMM. The proposed model is validated in the recovery of three signals: a smooth synthetic signal, a real-world heart-rate time series and a step function, where GPMM outperformed the standard GP in terms of estimation error, uncertainty representation and recovery of the spectral content of the latent signal. Comments: Published on IEEE Signal Processing Letters on Dec. 2016 Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:1707.05909 [stat.ML] (or arXiv:1707.05909v1 [stat.ML] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1707.05909 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Letters, vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 231-235, Feb. 2017 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/LSP.2016.2637312 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Felipe Tobar [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 19 Jul 2017 00:56:11 UTC (516 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Recovering Latent Signals from a Mixture of Measurements using a Gaussian Process Prior, by Felipe Tobar and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: stat.ML < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG stat References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
