<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery via Forward-Backward Pursuit

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5626v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:00.546447+00:00

## Notes

[1210.5626v2] Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery via Forward-Backward Pursuit Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1210.5626v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1210.5626v2 (cs) [Submitted on 20 Oct 2012 ( v1 ), last revised 6 Jul 2013 (this version, v2)] Title: Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery via Forward-Backward Pursuit Authors: Nazim Burak Karahanoglu , Hakan Erdogan View a PDF of the paper titled Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery via Forward-Backward Pursuit, by Nazim Burak Karahanoglu and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Recovery of sparse signals from compressed measurements constitutes an l0 norm minimization problem, which is unpractical to solve. A number of sparse recovery approaches have appeared in the literature, including l1 minimization techniques, greedy pursuit algorithms, Bayesian methods and nonconvex optimization techniques among others. This manuscript introduces a novel two stage greedy approach, called the Forward-Backward Pursuit (FBP). FBP is an iterative approach where each iteration consists of consecutive forward and backward stages. The forward step first expands the support estimate by the forward step size, while the following backward step shrinks it by the backward step size. The forward step size is larger than the backward step size, hence the initially empty support estimate is expanded at the end of each iteration. Forward and backward steps are iterated until the residual power of the observation vector falls below a threshold. This structure of FBP does not necessitate the sparsity level to be known a priori in contrast to the Subspace Pursuit or Compressive Sampling Matching Pursuit algorithms. FBP recovery performance is demonstrated via simulations including recovery of random sparse signals with different nonzero coefficient distributions in noisy and noise-free scenarios in addition to the recovery of a sparse image. Comments: accepted for publication in Digital Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1210.5626 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1210.5626v2 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1210.5626 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Digital Signal Processing 23 (2013), pp. 1539-1548 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2013.05.007 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Nazim Burak Karahanoglu [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 20 Oct 2012 14:21:17 UTC (774 KB) [v2] Sat, 6 Jul 2013 10:16:35 UTC (786 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Compressed Sensing Signal Recovery via Forward-Backward Pursuit, by Nazim Burak Karahanoglu and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2012-10 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Nazim Burak Karahanoglu Hakan Erdogan export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
