<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Investigating the impact of stereo processing -- a study for extending the Open Dataset of Audio Quality (ODAQ)

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.14259v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:51.319495+00:00

## Notes

[2512.14259v1] Investigating the impact of stereo processing -- a study for extending the Open Dataset of Audio Quality (ODAQ) Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2512.14259v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2512.14259v1 (eess) [Submitted on 16 Dec 2025] Title: Investigating the impact of stereo processing -- a study for extending the Open Dataset of Audio Quality (ODAQ) Authors: Sascha Dick , Christoph Thompson , Chih-Wei Wu , Pablo Delgado , Phillip A. Williams , Matteo Torcoli View a PDF of the paper titled Investigating the impact of stereo processing -- a study for extending the Open Dataset of Audio Quality (ODAQ), by Sascha Dick and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: In this paper, we present an initial study for extending Open Dataset of Audio Quality (ODAQ) towards the impact of stereo processing. Monaural artifacts from ODAQ were adapted in combinations with left-right (LR) and mid-side (MS) stereo processing, across stimuli including solo instruments, typical wide stereo mixes and and hard-panned mixes. Listening tests in different presentation context -- with and without direct comparison of MS and LR conditions -- were conducted to collect subjective data beyond monaural artifacts while also scrutinizing the listening test methodology. The ODAQ dataset is extended with new material along with subjective scores from 16 expert listeners. The listening test results show substantial influences of the stimuli's spatial characteristics as well as the presentation context. Notably, several significant disparities between LR and MS only occur when presented in direct comparison. The findings suggest that listeners primarily assess timbral impairments when spatial characteristics are consistent and focus on stereo image only when timbral quality is similar. The rating of an additional mono anchor was overall consistent across different stereo characteristics, averaging at 65 on the MUSHRA scale, further corroborating that listeners prioritize timbral over spatial impressions. Comments: Presented at the Audio Engineering Society (AES) 159th Convention, October 2025, Paper number 365, see this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2512.14259 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2512.14259v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2512.14259 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sascha Dick [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 16 Dec 2025 10:11:28 UTC (75 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Investigating the impact of stereo processing -- a study for extending the Open Dataset of Audio Quality (ODAQ), by Sascha Dick and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-12 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
