<!-- source_type: articles -->
# One-Bit MUSIC

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.05109v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:29.014691+00:00

## Notes

[1901.05109v1] One-Bit MUSIC Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1901.05109v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1901.05109v1 (eess) [Submitted on 16 Jan 2019] Title: One-Bit MUSIC Authors: Xiaodong Huang , Bin Liao View a PDF of the paper titled One-Bit MUSIC, by Xiaodong Huang and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this letter, we consider the problem of direction-of-arrival (DOA) estimation with one-bit quantized array measurements. With analysis, it is shown that, under mild conditions the one-bit covariance matrix can be approximated by the sum of a scaled unquantized covariance matrix and a scaled identity matrix. Although the scaling parameters unknown because of the extreme quantization, they do not affect the subspace-based DOA estimators. Specifically, the signal and noise subspaces can be straightforwardly determined through the eigendecomposition of the one-bit covariance matrix, without pre-processing such as unquantized covariance matrix reconstruction. With so-obtained subspaces, the most classical multiple signal classification (MUSIC) technique can be applied to determine the signal DOAs. The resulting method is thus termed as one-bit MUSIC. Thanks to the simplicity of this method, it can be very easily implemented in practical applications, whereas the DOA estimation performance is comparable to the case with unquantized covariance matrix reconstruction, as demonstrated by various simulations. Comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, submitted to IEEE Signal Processing Letters Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1901.05109 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1901.05109v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1901.05109 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 2019 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/LSP.2019.2913452 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Bin Liao [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 16 Jan 2019 02:06:53 UTC (190 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled One-Bit MUSIC, by Xiaodong Huang and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-01 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
