<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Learning Audio-Visual Dereverberation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.07732v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:34.445731+00:00

## Notes

[2106.07732v2] Learning Audio-Visual Dereverberation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2106.07732v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2106.07732v2 (cs) [Submitted on 14 Jun 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 13 Mar 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Learning Audio-Visual Dereverberation Authors: Changan Chen , Wei Sun , David Harwath , Kristen Grauman View a PDF of the paper titled Learning Audio-Visual Dereverberation, by Changan Chen and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Reverberation not only degrades the quality of speech for human perception, but also severely impacts the accuracy of automatic speech recognition. Prior work attempts to remove reverberation based on the audio modality only. Our idea is to learn to dereverberate speech from audio-visual observations. The visual environment surrounding a human speaker reveals important cues about the room geometry, materials, and speaker location, all of which influence the precise reverberation effects. We introduce Visually-Informed Dereverberation of Audio (VIDA), an end-to-end approach that learns to remove reverberation based on both the observed monaural sound and visual scene. In support of this new task, we develop a large-scale dataset SoundSpaces-Speech that uses realistic acoustic renderings of speech in real-world 3D scans of homes offering a variety of room acoustics. Demonstrating our approach on both simulated and real imagery for speech enhancement, speech recognition, and speaker identification, we show it achieves state-of-the-art performance and substantially improves over audio-only methods. Comments: Accepted at ICASSP 2023. This is the longer version of the five-page camera-ready paper. Project page: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2106.07732 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2106.07732v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2106.07732 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Changan Chen [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 14 Jun 2021 20:01:24 UTC (20,325 KB) [v2] Mon, 13 Mar 2023 21:34:57 UTC (22,010 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Learning Audio-Visual Dereverberation, by Changan Chen and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Changan Chen Wei Sun David Harwath Kristen Grauman export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
