<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Zero-Shot Audio Captioning Using Soft and Hard Prompts

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.06295v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:41.281522+00:00

## Notes

[2406.06295v1] Zero-Shot Audio Captioning Using Soft and Hard Prompts Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2406.06295v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2406.06295v1 (cs) [Submitted on 10 Jun 2024] Title: Zero-Shot Audio Captioning Using Soft and Hard Prompts Authors: Yiming Zhang , Xuenan Xu , Ruoyi Du , Haohe Liu , Yuan Dong , Zheng-Hua Tan , Wenwu Wang , Zhanyu Ma View a PDF of the paper titled Zero-Shot Audio Captioning Using Soft and Hard Prompts, by Yiming Zhang and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: In traditional audio captioning methods, a model is usually trained in a fully supervised manner using a human-annotated dataset containing audio-text pairs and then evaluated on the test sets from the same dataset. Such methods have two limitations. First, these methods are often data-hungry and require time-consuming and expensive human annotations to obtain audio-text pairs. Second, these models often suffer from performance degradation in cross-domain scenarios, i.e., when the input audio comes from a different domain than the training set, which, however, has received little attention. We propose an effective audio captioning method based on the contrastive language-audio pre-training (CLAP) model to address these issues. Our proposed method requires only textual data for training, enabling the model to generate text from the textual feature in the cross-modal semantic this http URL the inference stage, the model generates the descriptive text for the given audio from the audio feature by leveraging the audio-text alignment from this http URL devise two strategies to mitigate the discrepancy between text and audio embeddings: a mixed-augmentation-based soft prompt and a retrieval-based acoustic-aware hard prompt. These approaches are designed to enhance the generalization performance of our proposed model, facilitating the model to generate captions more robustly and accurately. Extensive experiments on AudioCaps and Clotho benchmarks show the effectiveness of our proposed method, which outperforms other zero-shot audio captioning approaches for in-domain scenarios and outperforms the compared methods for cross-domain scenarios, underscoring the generalization ability of our method. Comments: Submitted to IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2406.06295 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2406.06295v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2406.06295 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Yiming Zhang [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 10 Jun 2024 14:16:28 UTC (132 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Zero-Shot Audio Captioning Using Soft and Hard Prompts, by Yiming Zhang and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-06 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
