<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Quantum mechanics-based signal and image representation: application to denoising

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2004.01078v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:24.209464+00:00

## Notes

[2004.01078v3] Quantum mechanics-based signal and image representation: application to denoising Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2004.01078v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2004.01078v3 (eess) [Submitted on 2 Apr 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 16 Mar 2021 (this version, v3)] Title: Quantum mechanics-based signal and image representation: application to denoising Authors: Sayantan Dutta , Adrian Basarab , Bertrand Georgeot , Denis Kouamé View a PDF of the paper titled Quantum mechanics-based signal and image representation: application to denoising, by Sayantan Dutta and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Decomposition of digital signals and images into other basis or dictionaries than time or space domains is a very common approach in signal and image processing and analysis. Such a decomposition is commonly obtained using fixed transforms (e.g., Fourier or wavelet) or dictionaries learned from example databases or from the signal or image itself. In this work, we investigate in detail a new approach of constructing such a signal or image-dependent bases inspired by quantum mechanics tools, i.e., by considering the signal or image as a potential in the discretized Schroedinger equation. To illustrate the potential of the proposed decomposition, denoising results are reported in the case of Gaussian, Poisson, and speckle noise and compared to the state of the art algorithms based on wavelet shrinkage, total variation regularization or patch-wise sparse coding in learned dictionaries, non-local means image denoising, and graph signal processing. Comments: 17 pages, 18 figures; complements and expands arXiv:1802.02358 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Image and Video Processing (eess.IV) Cite as: arXiv:2004.01078 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2004.01078v3 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2004.01078 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Open Journal of Signal Processing, 2, 190-206 (2021) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/OJSP.2021.3067507 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Sayantan Dutta [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 2 Apr 2020 15:38:20 UTC (6,336 KB) [v2] Fri, 13 Nov 2020 16:37:35 UTC (15,393 KB) [v3] Tue, 16 Mar 2021 11:24:40 UTC (17,124 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Quantum mechanics-based signal and image representation: application to denoising, by Sayantan Dutta and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-04 Change to browse by: eess eess.IV References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
