<!-- source_type: articles -->
# UniBriVL: Robust Universal Representation and Generation of Audio Driven Diffusion Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15898v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:39.916352+00:00

## Notes

[2307.15898v2] UniBriVL: Robust Universal Representation and Generation of Audio Driven Diffusion Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2307.15898v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2307.15898v2 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Jul 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Sep 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: UniBriVL: Robust Universal Representation and Generation of Audio Driven Diffusion Models Authors: Sen Fang , Bowen Gao , Yangjian Wu , Teik Toe Teoh View a PDF of the paper titled UniBriVL: Robust Universal Representation and Generation of Audio Driven Diffusion Models, by Sen Fang and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Multimodal large models have been recognized for their advantages in various performance and downstream tasks. The development of these models is crucial towards achieving general artificial intelligence in the future. In this paper, we propose a novel universal language representation learning method called UniBriVL, which is based on Bridging-Vision-and-Language (BriVL). Universal BriVL embeds audio, image, and text into a shared space, enabling the realization of various multimodal applications. Our approach addresses major challenges in robust language (both text and audio) representation learning and effectively captures the correlation between audio and image. Additionally, we demonstrate the qualitative evaluation of the generated images from UniBriVL, which serves to highlight the potential of our approach in creating images from audio. Overall, our experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of UniBriVL in downstream tasks and its ability to choose appropriate images from audio. The proposed approach has the potential for various applications such as speech recognition, music signal processing, and captioning systems. Comments: Voice-Text fusion input; The first work of audio driven diffusion model. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2303.04585 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2307.15898 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2307.15898v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.15898 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sen Fang [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 29 Jul 2023 05:55:25 UTC (15,176 KB) [v2] Sat, 9 Sep 2023 11:14:22 UTC (15,168 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled UniBriVL: Robust Universal Representation and Generation of Audio Driven Diffusion Models, by Sen Fang and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
