<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Physics-Informed Topological Signal Processing for Water Distribution Network Monitoring

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.07560v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:08.612950+00:00

## Notes

[2505.07560v1] Physics-Informed Topological Signal Processing for Water Distribution Network Monitoring Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2505.07560v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2505.07560v1 (eess) [Submitted on 12 May 2025] Title: Physics-Informed Topological Signal Processing for Water Distribution Network Monitoring Authors: Tiziana Cattai , Stefania Sardellitti , Stefania Colonnese , Francesca Cuomo , Sergio Barbarossa View a PDF of the paper titled Physics-Informed Topological Signal Processing for Water Distribution Network Monitoring, by Tiziana Cattai and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Water management is one of the most critical aspects of our society, together with population increase and climate change. Water scarcity requires a better characterization and monitoring of Water Distribution Networks (WDNs). This paper presents a novel framework for monitoring Water Distribution Networks (WDNs) by integrating physics-informed modeling of the nonlinear interactions between pressure and flow data with Topological Signal Processing (TSP) techniques. We represent pressure and flow data as signals defined over a second-order cell complex, enabling accurate estimation of water pressures and flows throughout the entire network from sparse sensor measurements. By formalizing hydraulic conservation laws through the TSP framework, we provide a comprehensive representation of nodal pressures and edge flows that incorporate higher-order interactions captured through the formalism of cell complexes. This provides a principled way to decompose the water flows in WDNs in three orthogonal signal components (irrotational, solenoidal and harmonic). The spectral representations of these components inherently reflect the conservation laws governing the water pressures and flows. Sparse representation in the spectral domain enable topology-based sampling and reconstruction of nodal pressures and water flows from sparse measurements. Our results demonstrate that employing cell complex-based signal representations enhances the accuracy of edge signal reconstruction, due to proper modeling of both conservative and non-conservative flows along the polygonal cells. Comments: This paper has been sumbmitted to IEEE Transactions on Signal and Information Processing over Networks Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2505.07560 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2505.07560v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.07560 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Tiziana Cattai [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 12 May 2025 13:43:05 UTC (1,051 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Physics-Informed Topological Signal Processing for Water Distribution Network Monitoring, by Tiziana Cattai and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-05 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
