<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Sparsity-Assisted Signal Denoising and Pattern Recognition in Time-Series Data

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1906.11330v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:44.869279+00:00

## Notes

[1906.11330v1] Sparsity-Assisted Signal Denoising and Pattern Recognition in Time-Series Data Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1906.11330v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1906.11330v1 (eess) [Submitted on 26 Jun 2019] Title: Sparsity-Assisted Signal Denoising and Pattern Recognition in Time-Series Data Authors: G.V. Prateek , Yo-El Ju , Arye Nehorai View a PDF of the paper titled Sparsity-Assisted Signal Denoising and Pattern Recognition in Time-Series Data, by G.V. Prateek and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: We address the problem of signal denoising and pattern recognition in processing batch-mode time-series data by combining linear time-invariant filters, orthogonal multiresolution representations, and sparsity-based methods. We propose a novel approach to designing higher-order zero-phase low-pass, high-pass, and band-pass infinite impulse response filters as matrices, using spectral transformation of the state-space representation of digital filters. We also propose a proximal gradient-based technique to factorize a special class of zero-phase high-pass and band-pass digital filters so that the factorization product preserves the zero-phase property of the filter and also incorporates a sparse-derivative component of the input in the signal model. To demonstrate applications of our novel filter designs, we validate and propose new signal models to simultaneously denoise and identify patterns of interest. We begin by using our proposed filter design to test an existing signal model that simultaneously combines linear time invariant (LTI) filters and sparsity-based methods. We develop a new signal model called sparsity-assisted signal denoising (SASD) by combining our proposed filter designs with the existing signal model. Thereafter, we propose and derive a new signal model called sparsity-assisted pattern recognition (SAPR). In SAPR, we combine LTI band-pass filters and sparsity-based methods with orthogonal multiresolution representations, such as wavelets, to detect specific patterns in the input signal. Finally, we combine the signal denoising and pattern recognition tasks, and derive a new signal model called the sparsity-assisted signal denoising and pattern recognition (SASDPR). We illustrate the capabilities of the SAPR and SASDPR frameworks using sleep-electroencephalography data to detect K-complexes and sleep spindles, respectively. Comments: 22 pages, 16 figures, submitted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1906.11330 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1906.11330v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1906.11330 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Prateek Gundannavar Vijay [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 26 Jun 2019 20:20:12 UTC (1,778 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Sparsity-Assisted Signal Denoising and Pattern Recognition in Time-Series Data, by G.V. Prateek and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-06 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
