<!-- source_type: articles -->
# End-to-end learning for music audio tagging at scale

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1711.02520v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:52.598928+00:00

## Notes

[1711.02520v4] End-to-end learning for music audio tagging at scale Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1711.02520v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1711.02520v4 (cs) [Submitted on 7 Nov 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 15 Jun 2018 (this version, v4)] Title: End-to-end learning for music audio tagging at scale Authors: Jordi Pons , Oriol Nieto , Matthew Prockup , Erik Schmidt , Andreas Ehmann , Xavier Serra View a PDF of the paper titled End-to-end learning for music audio tagging at scale, by Jordi Pons and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: The lack of data tends to limit the outcomes of deep learning research, particularly when dealing with end-to-end learning stacks processing raw data such as waveforms. In this study, 1.2M tracks annotated with musical labels are available to train our end-to-end models. This large amount of data allows us to unrestrictedly explore two different design paradigms for music auto-tagging: assumption-free models - using waveforms as input with very small convolutional filters; and models that rely on domain knowledge - log-mel spectrograms with a convolutional neural network designed to learn timbral and temporal features. Our work focuses on studying how these two types of deep architectures perform when datasets of variable size are available for training: the MagnaTagATune (25k songs), the Million Song Dataset (240k songs), and a private dataset of 1.2M songs. Our experiments suggest that music domain assumptions are relevant when not enough training data are available, thus showing how waveform-based models outperform spectrogram-based ones in large-scale data scenarios. Comments: Presented at the Workshop on Machine Learning for Audio Signal Processing (ML4Audio) at NIPS 2017, and in proceedings of the 19th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR2018). Code: this https URL . Demo: this http URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1711.02520 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1711.02520v4 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1711.02520 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jordi Pons M.Sc. [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 7 Nov 2017 15:10:39 UTC (441 KB) [v2] Wed, 15 Nov 2017 16:55:54 UTC (441 KB) [v3] Thu, 16 Nov 2017 09:10:05 UTC (441 KB) [v4] Fri, 15 Jun 2018 08:04:37 UTC (462 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled End-to-end learning for music audio tagging at scale, by Jordi Pons and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-11 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 2 blog links ( what is this? ) DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Jordi Pons Oriol Nieto Matthew Prockup Erik M. Schmidt Andreas F. Ehmann … export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
