<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Acoustic Prompt Tuning: Empowering Large Language Models with Audition Capabilities

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00249v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:29.217527+00:00

## Notes

[2312.00249v2] Acoustic Prompt Tuning: Empowering Large Language Models with Audition Capabilities Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2312.00249v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2312.00249v2 (eess) [Submitted on 30 Nov 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 18 Feb 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Acoustic Prompt Tuning: Empowering Large Language Models with Audition Capabilities Authors: Jinhua Liang , Xubo Liu , Wenwu Wang , Mark D. Plumbley , Huy Phan , Emmanouil Benetos View a PDF of the paper titled Acoustic Prompt Tuning: Empowering Large Language Models with Audition Capabilities, by Jinhua Liang and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The auditory system plays a substantial role in shaping the overall human perceptual experience. While prevailing large language models (LLMs) and visual language models (VLMs) have shown their promise in solving a wide variety of language and vision understanding tasks, only a few of them can be generalised to the audio domain without compromising their domain-specific capability. In this work, we introduce Acoustic Prompt Tuning (APT), a new adapter extending LLMs and VLMs to the audio domain by injecting audio embeddings to the input of LLMs, namely soft prompting. Specifically, APT applies an instruction-aware audio aligner to generate soft prompts, conditioned on both input text and sounds, as the inputs to the language model. To mitigate data scarcity in the audio domain, a curriculum learning strategy is proposed by formulating diverse audio tasks in a sequential manner. Moreover, we improve the audio language model by using interleaved audio-text embeddings as the input sequence. In this improved model, zero constraints are imposed on the input format, thus it is capable of tackling diverse modelling tasks, such as few-shot audio classification and audio comparison. To further evaluate the advanced ability of the audio networks, we introduce natural language audio reasoning (NLAR), a new task that analyses two audio clips by comparison and summarisation. Experiments show that APT-enhanced LLMs (namely APT-LLMs) achieve competitive results compared to the expert models (i.e., the networks trained on the target datasets) across various tasks. We finally demonstrate APT's ability in extending frozen VLMs to the audio domain without fine-tuning, achieving promising results in audio-visual question and answering. Our code and model weights will be released at this https URL Comments: Published at IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2312.00249 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2312.00249v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2312.00249 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing (2025) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLPRO.2025.3533375 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Jinhua Liang [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 30 Nov 2023 23:43:59 UTC (499 KB) [v2] Tue, 18 Feb 2025 09:42:14 UTC (1,543 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Acoustic Prompt Tuning: Empowering Large Language Models with Audition Capabilities, by Jinhua Liang and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-12 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
