<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Rendering Spatial Sound for Interoperable Experiences in the Audio Metaverse

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.12471v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:19.632036+00:00

## Notes

[2109.12471v1] Rendering Spatial Sound for Interoperable Experiences in the Audio Metaverse Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2109.12471v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2109.12471v1 (cs) [Submitted on 26 Sep 2021] Title: Rendering Spatial Sound for Interoperable Experiences in the Audio Metaverse Authors: Jean-Marc Jot , Rémi Audfray , Mark Hertensteiner , Brian Schmidt View a PDF of the paper titled Rendering Spatial Sound for Interoperable Experiences in the Audio Metaverse, by Jean-Marc Jot and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Interactive audio spatialization technology previously developed for video game authoring and rendering has evolved into an essential component of platforms enabling shared immersive virtual experiences for future co-presence, remote collaboration and entertainment applications. New wearable virtual and augmented reality displays employ real-time binaural audio computing engines rendering multiple digital objects and supporting the free navigation of networked participants or their avatars through a juxtaposition of environments, real and virtual, often referred to as the Metaverse. These applications require a parametric audio scene programming interface to facilitate the creation and deployment of shared, dynamic and realistic virtual 3D worlds on mobile computing platforms and remote servers. We propose a practical approach for designing parametric 6-degree-of-freedom object-based interactive audio engines to deliver the perceptually relevant binaural cues necessary for audio/visual and virtual/real congruence in Metaverse experiences. We address the effects of room reverberation, acoustic reflectors, and obstacles in both the virtual and real environments, and discuss how such effects may be driven by combinations of pre-computed and real-time acoustic propagation solvers. We envision an open scene description model distilled to facilitate the development of interoperable applications distributed across multiple platforms, where each audio object represents, to the user, a natural sound source having controllable distance, size, orientation, and acoustic radiation properties. Comments: International Conference on Immersive and 3D Audio (i3DA), September 2021 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2109.12471 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2109.12471v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2109.12471 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jean-Marc Jot [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 26 Sep 2021 01:24:08 UTC (7,398 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Rendering Spatial Sound for Interoperable Experiences in the Audio Metaverse, by Jean-Marc Jot and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-09 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
