<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Infinite Factorial Linear Dynamical Systems for Transient Signal Detection

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04973v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:37.119859+00:00

## Notes

[2501.04973v1] Infinite Factorial Linear Dynamical Systems for Transient Signal Detection Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2501.04973v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2501.04973v1 (eess) [Submitted on 9 Jan 2025] Title: Infinite Factorial Linear Dynamical Systems for Transient Signal Detection Authors: Jiadi Bao , Yatong Wang , Yunjie Li , Mengtao Zhu , Shafei Wang View a PDF of the paper titled Infinite Factorial Linear Dynamical Systems for Transient Signal Detection, by Jiadi Bao and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Accurately detecting the transient signal of interest from the background signal is one of the fundamental tasks in signal processing. The most recent approaches assume the existence of a single background source and represent the background signal using a linear dynamical system (LDS). This assumption might fail to capture the complexities of modern electromagnetic environments with multiple sources. To address this limitation, this paper proposes a method for detecting the transient signal in a background composed of an unknown number of emitters. The proposed method consists of two main tasks. First, a Bayesian nonparametric model called the infinite factorial linear dynamical system (IFLDS) is developed. The developed model is based on the sticky Indian buffet process and enables the representation and parameter learning of the unbounded number of background sources. This study also designs a parameter learning method for the IFLDS using slice sampling and particle Gibbs with ancestor sampling. Second, the finite moving average (FMA) stopping time is introduced to minimize the worst-case probability of missed detection, and the statistical performance of the stopping time is investigated. To facilitate the computation of the FMA stopping time, this study derives the factorial Kalman forward filtering (FKFF) method and designs a dependence structure for the underlying model, allowing the stopping time to be defined by a recursive function. Numerical simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method and the validity of the theoretical results. The experimental results of the pulse signal detection under the condition of communication interference confirm the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed method. Comments: 13 pages, 9 figures, submitting to IEEE transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2501.04973 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2501.04973v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2501.04973 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jiadi Bao [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 9 Jan 2025 05:05:31 UTC (1,675 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Infinite Factorial Linear Dynamical Systems for Transient Signal Detection, by Jiadi Bao and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-01 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
