<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multi-way Graph Signal Processing on Tensors: Integrative analysis of irregular geometries

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2007.00041v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:40.528269+00:00

## Notes

[2007.00041v2] Multi-way Graph Signal Processing on Tensors: Integrative analysis of irregular geometries Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2007.00041v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2007.00041v2 (eess) [Submitted on 30 Jun 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 27 Jul 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: Multi-way Graph Signal Processing on Tensors: Integrative analysis of irregular geometries Authors: Jay S. Stanley III , Eric C. Chi , Gal Mishne View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-way Graph Signal Processing on Tensors: Integrative analysis of irregular geometries, by Jay S. Stanley III and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Graph signal processing (GSP) is an important methodology for studying data residing on irregular structures. As acquired data is increasingly taking the form of multi-way tensors, new signal processing tools are needed to maximally utilize the multi-way structure within the data. In this paper, we review modern signal processing frameworks generalizing GSP to multi-way data, starting from graph signals coupled to familiar regular axes such as time in sensor networks, and then extending to general graphs across all tensor modes. This widely applicable paradigm motivates reformulating and improving upon classical problems and approaches to creatively address the challenges in tensor-based data. We synthesize common themes arising from current efforts to combine GSP with tensor analysis and highlight future directions in extending GSP to the multi-way paradigm. Comments: In review for IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:2007.00041 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2007.00041v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2007.00041 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2020.3013555 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Jay Stanley IIi [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 30 Jun 2020 18:15:17 UTC (3,820 KB) [v2] Mon, 27 Jul 2020 13:43:07 UTC (11,845 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-way Graph Signal Processing on Tensors: Integrative analysis of irregular geometries, by Jay S. Stanley III and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
