<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Transforming Musical Signals through a Genre Classifying Convolutional Neural Network

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.09553v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:57.870558+00:00

## Notes

[1706.09553v1] Transforming Musical Signals through a Genre Classifying Convolutional Neural Network Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1706.09553v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1706.09553v1 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Jun 2017] Title: Transforming Musical Signals through a Genre Classifying Convolutional Neural Network Authors: S. Geng , G. Ren , M. Ogihara View a PDF of the paper titled Transforming Musical Signals through a Genre Classifying Convolutional Neural Network, by S. Geng and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been successfully applied on both discriminative and generative modeling for music-related tasks. For a particular task, the trained CNN contains information representing the decision making or the abstracting process. One can hope to manipulate existing music based on this 'informed' network and create music with new features corresponding to the knowledge obtained by the network. In this paper, we propose a method to utilize the stored information from a CNN trained on musical genre classification task. The network was composed of three convolutional layers, and was trained to classify five-second song clips into five different genres. After training, randomly selected clips were modified by maximizing the sum of outputs from the network layers. In addition to the potential of such CNNs to produce interesting audio transformation, more information about the network and the original music could be obtained from the analysis of the generated features since these features indicate how the network 'understands' the music. Comments: Proceedings of the First International Conference on Deep Learning and Music, Anchorage, US, May, 2017 ( arXiv:1706.08675v1 [cs.NE]) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE) MSC classes: 68Txx ACM classes: C.1.3; H.5.1 Report number: DLM/2017/4 Cite as: arXiv:1706.09553 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1706.09553v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1706.09553 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proc. of the First Int. Workshop on Deep Learning and Music joint with IJCNN. Anchorage, US. 1(1). pp 48-49 (2017) Submission history From: Shija Geng [ view email ] [via Dorien Herremans as proxy] [v1] Thu, 29 Jun 2017 02:39:00 UTC (4 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Transforming Musical Signals through a Genre Classifying Convolutional Neural Network, by S. Geng and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.MM cs.NE References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex S. Geng Shijia Geng Gang Ren G. Ren Mitsunori Ogihara … export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
