<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multicarrier ISAC: Advances in Waveform Design, Signal Processing and Learning under Non-Idealities

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18476v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:05.533691+00:00

## Notes

[2406.18476v1] Multicarrier ISAC: Advances in Waveform Design, Signal Processing and Learning under Non-Idealities Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2406.18476v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2406.18476v1 (eess) [Submitted on 26 Jun 2024] Title: Multicarrier ISAC: Advances in Waveform Design, Signal Processing and Learning under Non-Idealities Authors: Visa Koivunen , Musa Furkan Keskin , Henk Wymeersch , Mikko Valkama , Nuria González-Prelcic View a PDF of the paper titled Multicarrier ISAC: Advances in Waveform Design, Signal Processing and Learning under Non-Idealities, by Visa Koivunen and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This paper addresses the topic of integrated sensing and communications (ISAC) in 5G and emerging 6G wireless networks. ISAC systems operate within shared, congested or even contested spectrum, aiming to deliver high performance in both wireless communications and radio frequency (RF) sensing. The expected benefits include more efficient utilization of spectrum, power, hardware (HW) and antenna resources. Focusing on multicarrier (MC) systems, which represent the most widely used communication waveforms, it explores the co-design and optimization of waveforms alongside multiantenna transceiver signal processing for communications and both monostatic and bistatic sensing applications of ISAC. Moreover, techniques of high practical relevance for overcoming and even harnessing challenges posed by non-idealities in actual transceiver implementations are considered. To operate in highly dynamic radio environments and target scenarios, both model-based structured optimization and learning-based methodologies for ISAC systems are covered, assessing their adaptability and learning capabilities under real-world conditions. The paper presents trade-offs in communication-centric and radar-sensing-centric approaches, aiming for an optimized balance in densely used spectrum. Comments: To appear in IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:2406.18476 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2406.18476v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2406.18476 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Henk Wymeersch [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 26 Jun 2024 16:36:17 UTC (1,646 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multicarrier ISAC: Advances in Waveform Design, Signal Processing and Learning under Non-Idealities, by Visa Koivunen and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT eess math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
