<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Music Signal Processing Using Vector Product Neural Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.09555v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:33.022148+00:00

## Notes

[1706.09555v1] Music Signal Processing Using Vector Product Neural Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1706.09555v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1706.09555v1 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Jun 2017] Title: Music Signal Processing Using Vector Product Neural Networks Authors: Z.C. Fan , T.S. Chan , Y.H. Yang , J.S. R. Jang View a PDF of the paper titled Music Signal Processing Using Vector Product Neural Networks, by Z.C. Fan and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: We propose a novel neural network model for music signal processing using vector product neurons and dimensionality transformations. Here, the inputs are first mapped from real values into three-dimensional vectors then fed into a three-dimensional vector product neural network where the inputs, outputs, and weights are all three-dimensional values. Next, the final outputs are mapped back to the reals. Two methods for dimensionality transformation are proposed, one via context windows and the other via spectral coloring. Experimental results on the iKala dataset for blind singing voice separation confirm the efficacy of our model. Comments: Proceedings of the First International Conference on Deep Learning and Music, Anchorage, US, May, 2017 ( arXiv:1706.08675v1 [cs.NE]) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE) MSC classes: 68Txx ACM classes: C.1.3; H.5.1 Report number: DLM/2017/5 Cite as: arXiv:1706.09555 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1706.09555v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1706.09555 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proc. of the First Int. Workshop on Deep Learning and Music joint with IJCNN. Anchorage, US. 1(1). pp 36-30 (2017) Submission history From: Zhe-Cheng Fan [ view email ] [via Dorien Herremans as proxy] [v1] Thu, 29 Jun 2017 02:41:30 UTC (7 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Music Signal Processing Using Vector Product Neural Networks, by Z.C. Fan and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.MM cs.NE References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Zhe-Cheng Fan T. S. Chan Yi-Hsuan Yang Y. H. Yang Jyh-Shing Roger Jang export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
