<!-- source_type: articles -->
# The GigaMIDI Dataset with Features for Expressive Music Performance Detection

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17726v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:21.752814+00:00

## Notes

[2502.17726v1] The GigaMIDI Dataset with Features for Expressive Music Performance Detection Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2502.17726v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2502.17726v1 (cs) [Submitted on 24 Feb 2025] Title: The GigaMIDI Dataset with Features for Expressive Music Performance Detection Authors: Keon Ju Maverick Lee , Jeff Ens , Sara Adkins , Pedro Sarmento , Mathieu Barthet , Philippe Pasquier View a PDF of the paper titled The GigaMIDI Dataset with Features for Expressive Music Performance Detection, by Keon Ju Maverick Lee and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The Musical Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI), introduced in 1983, revolutionized music production by allowing computers and instruments to communicate efficiently. MIDI files encode musical instructions compactly, facilitating convenient music sharing. They benefit Music Information Retrieval (MIR), aiding in research on music understanding, computational musicology, and generative music. The GigaMIDI dataset contains over 1.4 million unique MIDI files, encompassing 1.8 billion MIDI note events and over 5.3 million MIDI tracks. GigaMIDI is currently the largest collection of symbolic music in MIDI format available for research purposes under fair dealing. Distinguishing between non-expressive and expressive MIDI tracks is challenging, as MIDI files do not inherently make this distinction. To address this issue, we introduce a set of innovative heuristics for detecting expressive music performance. These include the Distinctive Note Velocity Ratio (DNVR) heuristic, which analyzes MIDI note velocity; the Distinctive Note Onset Deviation Ratio (DNODR) heuristic, which examines deviations in note onset times; and the Note Onset Median Metric Level (NOMML) heuristic, which evaluates onset positions relative to metric levels. Our evaluation demonstrates these heuristics effectively differentiate between non-expressive and expressive MIDI tracks. Furthermore, after evaluation, we create the most substantial expressive MIDI dataset, employing our heuristic, NOMML. This curated iteration of GigaMIDI encompasses expressively-performed instrument tracks detected by NOMML, containing all General MIDI instruments, constituting 31% of the GigaMIDI dataset, totalling 1,655,649 tracks. Comments: Published at Transactions of the International Society for Music Information Retrieval (TISMIR), 8(1), 1-19 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Digital Libraries (cs.DL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2502.17726 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2502.17726v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2502.17726 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5334/tismir.203 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Keon Ju M. Lee [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 24 Feb 2025 23:39:40 UTC (5,298 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled The GigaMIDI Dataset with Features for Expressive Music Performance Detection, by Keon Ju Maverick Lee and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.DL cs.IR eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
