<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Sanidha: A Studio Quality Multi-Modal Dataset for Carnatic Music

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06959v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:01.261464+00:00

## Notes

[2501.06959v1] Sanidha: A Studio Quality Multi-Modal Dataset for Carnatic Music Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2501.06959v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2501.06959v1 (cs) [Submitted on 12 Jan 2025] Title: Sanidha: A Studio Quality Multi-Modal Dataset for Carnatic Music Authors: Venkatakrishnan Vaidyanathapuram Krishnan , Noel Alben , Anish Nair , Nathaniel Condit-Schultz View a PDF of the paper titled Sanidha: A Studio Quality Multi-Modal Dataset for Carnatic Music, by Venkatakrishnan Vaidyanathapuram Krishnan and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Music source separation demixes a piece of music into its individual sound sources (vocals, percussion, melodic instruments, etc.), a task with no simple mathematical solution. It requires deep learning methods involving training on large datasets of isolated music stems. The most commonly available datasets are made from commercial Western music, limiting the models' applications to non-Western genres like Carnatic music. Carnatic music is a live tradition, with the available multi-track recordings containing overlapping sounds and bleeds between the sources. This poses a challenge to commercially available source separation models like Spleeter and Hybrid Demucs. In this work, we introduce 'Sanidha', the first open-source novel dataset for Carnatic music, offering studio-quality, multi-track recordings with minimal to no overlap or bleed. Along with the audio files, we provide high-definition videos of the artists' performances. Additionally, we fine-tuned Spleeter, one of the most commonly used source separation models, on our dataset and observed improved SDR performance compared to fine-tuning on a pre-existing Carnatic multi-track dataset. The outputs of the fine-tuned model with 'Sanidha' are evaluated through a listening study. Comments: Accepted to the 25th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2024) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Digital Libraries (cs.DL); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2501.06959 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2501.06959v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2501.06959 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proceedings of the 25th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, 705-712. San Francisco, California, USA and Online, November 10-14, 2024 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14877433 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Venkatakrishnan Vaidyanathapuram Krishnan [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 12 Jan 2025 22:39:58 UTC (9,266 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Sanidha: A Studio Quality Multi-Modal Dataset for Carnatic Music, by Venkatakrishnan Vaidyanathapuram Krishnan and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.DL cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
