<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Points2Sound: From mono to binaural audio using 3D point cloud scenes

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2104.12462v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:13.973183+00:00

## Notes

[2104.12462v3] Points2Sound: From mono to binaural audio using 3D point cloud scenes Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2104.12462v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2104.12462v3 (cs) [Submitted on 26 Apr 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 19 May 2023 (this version, v3)] Title: Points2Sound: From mono to binaural audio using 3D point cloud scenes Authors: Francesc Lluís , Vasileios Chatziioannou , Alex Hofmann View a PDF of the paper titled Points2Sound: From mono to binaural audio using 3D point cloud scenes, by Francesc Llu\'is and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: For immersive applications, the generation of binaural sound that matches its visual counterpart is crucial to bring meaningful experiences to people in a virtual environment. Recent studies have shown the possibility of using neural networks for synthesizing binaural audio from mono audio by using 2D visual information as guidance. Extending this approach by guiding the audio with 3D visual information and operating in the waveform domain may allow for a more accurate auralization of a virtual audio scene. We propose Points2Sound, a multi-modal deep learning model which generates a binaural version from mono audio using 3D point cloud scenes. Specifically, Points2Sound consists of a vision network and an audio network. The vision network uses 3D sparse convolutions to extract a visual feature from the point cloud scene. Then, the visual feature conditions the audio network, which operates in the waveform domain, to synthesize the binaural version. Results show that 3D visual information can successfully guide multi-modal deep learning models for the task of binaural synthesis. We also investigate how 3D point cloud attributes, learning objectives, different reverberant conditions, and several types of mono mixture signals affect the binaural audio synthesis performance of Points2Sound for the different numbers of sound sources present in the scene. Comments: Code, data, and listening examples: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2104.12462 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2104.12462v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2104.12462 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing 2022 (1), 1-15 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1186/s13636-022-00265-4 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Francesc Lluís [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 26 Apr 2021 10:44:01 UTC (1,275 KB) [v2] Thu, 25 Nov 2021 14:46:58 UTC (858 KB) [v3] Fri, 19 May 2023 12:54:02 UTC (1,335 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Points2Sound: From mono to binaural audio using 3D point cloud scenes, by Francesc Llu\'is and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Francesc Lluís export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
