<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Rethinking Sketching as Sampling: A Graph Signal Processing Approach

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.00119v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:30.028703+00:00

## Notes

[1611.00119v3] Rethinking Sketching as Sampling: A Graph Signal Processing Approach Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1611.00119v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1611.00119v3 (cs) [Submitted on 1 Nov 2016 ( v1 ), last revised 25 Nov 2019 (this version, v3)] Title: Rethinking Sketching as Sampling: A Graph Signal Processing Approach Authors: Fernando Gama , Antonio G. Marques , Gonzalo Mateos , Alejandro Ribeiro View a PDF of the paper titled Rethinking Sketching as Sampling: A Graph Signal Processing Approach, by Fernando Gama and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Sampling of signals belonging to a low-dimensional subspace has well-documented merits for dimensionality reduction, limited memory storage, and online processing of streaming network data. When the subspace is known, these signals can be modeled as bandlimited graph signals. Most existing sampling methods are designed to minimize the error incurred when reconstructing the original signal from its samples. Oftentimes these parsimonious signals serve as inputs to computationally-intensive linear operators. Hence, interest shifts from reconstructing the signal itself towards approximating the output of the prescribed linear operator efficiently. In this context, we propose a novel sampling scheme that leverages graph signal processing, exploiting the low-dimensional (bandlimited) structure of the input as well as the transformation whose output we wish to approximate. We formulate problems to jointly optimize sample selection and a sketch of the target linear transformation, so when the latter is applied to the sampled input signal the result is close to the desired output. Similar sketching as sampling ideas are also shown effective in the context of linear inverse problems. Because these designs are carried out off line, the resulting sampling plus reduced-complexity processing pipeline is particularly useful for data that are acquired or processed in a sequential fashion, where the linear operator has to be applied fast and repeatedly to successive inputs or response signals. Numerical tests showing the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms include classification of handwritten digits from as few as 20 out of 784 pixels in the input images and selection of sensors from a network deployed to carry out a distributed parameter estimation task. Comments: Submitted to Elsevier Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1611.00119 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1611.00119v3 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1611.00119 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Fernando Gama [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 1 Nov 2016 03:57:55 UTC (316 KB) [v2] Tue, 11 Sep 2018 23:54:42 UTC (1,478 KB) [v3] Mon, 25 Nov 2019 17:08:35 UTC (1,782 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Rethinking Sketching as Sampling: A Graph Signal Processing Approach, by Fernando Gama and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2016-11 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Fernando Gama Antonio G. Marques Gonzalo Mateos Alejandro Ribeiro export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
