<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Universal Spatial Audio Transcoder

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.04471v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:57.203709+00:00

## Notes

[2405.04471v2] Universal Spatial Audio Transcoder Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2405.04471v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2405.04471v2 (cs) [Submitted on 7 May 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 15 May 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: Universal Spatial Audio Transcoder Authors: Amaia Sagasti , Davide Scaini , Daniel Arteaga View a PDF of the paper titled Universal Spatial Audio Transcoder, by Amaia Sagasti and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This paper addresses the challenges associated with both the conversion between different spatial audio formats and the decoding of a spatial audio format to a specific loudspeaker layout. Existing approaches often rely on layout remapping tools, which may not guarantee optimal conversion from a psychoacoustic perspective. To overcome these challenges, we present the Universal Spatial Audio Transcoder (USAT) method and its corresponding open source implementation. USAT generates an optimal decoder or transcoder for any input spatial audio format, adapting it to any output format or 2D/3D loudspeaker configuration. Drawing upon optimization techniques based on psychoacoustic principles, the algorithm maximizes the preservation of spatial information. We present examples of the decoding and transcoding of several audio formats, and show that USAT approach is advantageous compared to the most common methods in the field. Comments: 12 pages, 8 figures. Accepted for presentation at the AES 156th Convention, Madrid, Spain (June 2024) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2405.04471 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2405.04471v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.04471 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Audio Engineering Society 156th Convention, Madrid (2024). https://aes2.org/publications/elibrary-page/?id=22517 Submission history From: Daniel Arteaga [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 7 May 2024 16:32:26 UTC (9,456 KB) [v2] Wed, 15 May 2024 10:14:03 UTC (9,443 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Universal Spatial Audio Transcoder, by Amaia Sagasti and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-05 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
