<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Learning General Audio Representations with Large-Scale Training of Patchout Audio Transformers

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13956v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:22.668283+00:00

## Notes

[2211.13956v2] Learning General Audio Representations with Large-Scale Training of Patchout Audio Transformers Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2211.13956v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2211.13956v2 (cs) [Submitted on 25 Nov 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 2 Mar 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Learning General Audio Representations with Large-Scale Training of Patchout Audio Transformers Authors: Khaled Koutini , Shahed Masoudian , Florian Schmid , Hamid Eghbal-zadeh , Jan Schlüter , Gerhard Widmer View a PDF of the paper titled Learning General Audio Representations with Large-Scale Training of Patchout Audio Transformers, by Khaled Koutini and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: The success of supervised deep learning methods is largely due to their ability to learn relevant features from raw data. Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) trained on large-scale datasets are capable of capturing a diverse set of features, and learning a representation that can generalize onto unseen tasks and datasets that are from the same domain. Hence, these models can be used as powerful feature extractors, in combination with shallower models as classifiers, for smaller tasks and datasets where the amount of training data is insufficient for learning an end-to-end model from scratch. During the past years, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have largely been the method of choice for audio processing. However, recently attention-based transformer models have demonstrated great potential in supervised settings, outperforming CNNs. In this work, we investigate the use of audio transformers trained on large-scale datasets to learn general-purpose representations. We study how the different setups in these audio transformers affect the quality of their embeddings. We experiment with the models' time resolution, extracted embedding level, and receptive fields in order to see how they affect performance on a variety of tasks and datasets, following the HEAR 2021 NeurIPS challenge evaluation setup. Our results show that representations extracted by audio transformers outperform CNN representations. Furthermore, we will show that transformers trained on Audioset can be extremely effective representation extractors for a wide range of downstream tasks. Comments: will apear in HEAR: Holistic Evaluation of Audio Representations Proceedings of Machine Learning Research PMLR 166. Source code: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2211.13956 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2211.13956v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2211.13956 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proceedings of Machine Learning Research v166 (2022) 65-89 Submission history From: Khaled Koutini [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 25 Nov 2022 08:39:12 UTC (1,349 KB) [v2] Thu, 2 Mar 2023 10:53:40 UTC (1,349 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Learning General Audio Representations with Large-Scale Training of Patchout Audio Transformers, by Khaled Koutini and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
