<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Seed-Music: A Unified Framework for High Quality and Controlled Music Generation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09214v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:21.032266+00:00

## Notes

[2409.09214v3] Seed-Music: A Unified Framework for High Quality and Controlled Music Generation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2409.09214v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2409.09214v3 (cs) [Submitted on 13 Sep 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Sep 2024 (this version, v3)] Title: Seed-Music: A Unified Framework for High Quality and Controlled Music Generation Authors: Ye Bai , Haonan Chen , Jitong Chen , Zhuo Chen , Yi Deng , Xiaohong Dong , Lamtharn Hantrakul , Weituo Hao , Qingqing Huang , Zhongyi Huang , Dongya Jia , Feihu La , Duc Le , Bochen Li , Chumin Li , Hui Li , Xingxing Li , Shouda Liu , Wei-Tsung Lu , Yiqing Lu , Andrew Shaw , Janne Spijkervet , Yakun Sun , Bo Wang , Ju-Chiang Wang , Yuping Wang , Yuxuan Wang , Ling Xu , Yifeng Yang , Chao Yao , Shuo Zhang , Yang Zhang , Yilin Zhang , Hang Zhao , Ziyi Zhao , Dejian Zhong , Shicen Zhou , Pei Zou View a PDF of the paper titled Seed-Music: A Unified Framework for High Quality and Controlled Music Generation, by Ye Bai and 37 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: We introduce Seed-Music, a suite of music generation systems capable of producing high-quality music with fine-grained style control. Our unified framework leverages both auto-regressive language modeling and diffusion approaches to support two key music creation workflows: controlled music generation and post-production editing. For controlled music generation, our system enables vocal music generation with performance controls from multi-modal inputs, including style descriptions, audio references, musical scores, and voice prompts. For post-production editing, it offers interactive tools for editing lyrics and vocal melodies directly in the generated audio. We encourage readers to listen to demo audio examples at this https URL " this https URL . Comments: Seed-Music technical report, 20 pages, 5 figures Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2409.09214 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2409.09214v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.09214 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Qingqing Huang [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 13 Sep 2024 22:06:18 UTC (941 KB) [v2] Wed, 18 Sep 2024 07:33:30 UTC (944 KB) [v3] Thu, 19 Sep 2024 07:14:20 UTC (944 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Seed-Music: A Unified Framework for High Quality and Controlled Music Generation, by Ye Bai and 37 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
