<!-- source_type: articles -->
# 3D Audio-Visual Segmentation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02236v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:50.450414+00:00

## Notes

[2411.02236v2] 3D Audio-Visual Segmentation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2411.02236v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition arXiv:2411.02236v2 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Nov 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 20 Oct 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: 3D Audio-Visual Segmentation Authors: Artem Sokolov , Swapnil Bhosale , Xiatian Zhu View a PDF of the paper titled 3D Audio-Visual Segmentation, by Artem Sokolov and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Recognizing the sounding objects in scenes is a longstanding objective in embodied AI, with diverse applications in robotics and AR/VR/MR. To that end, Audio-Visual Segmentation (AVS), taking as condition an audio signal to identify the masks of the target sounding objects in an input image with synchronous camera and microphone sensors, has been recently advanced. However, this paradigm is still insufficient for real-world operation, as the mapping from 2D images to 3D scenes is missing. To address this fundamental limitation, we introduce a novel research problem, 3D Audio-Visual Segmentation, extending the existing AVS to the 3D output space. This problem poses more challenges due to variations in camera extrinsics, audio scattering, occlusions, and diverse acoustics across sounding object categories. To facilitate this research, we create the very first simulation based benchmark, 3DAVS-S34-O7, providing photorealistic 3D scene environments with grounded spatial audio under single-instance and multi-instance settings, across 34 scenes and 7 object categories. This is made possible by re-purposing the Habitat simulator to generate comprehensive annotations of sounding object locations and corresponding 3D masks. Subsequently, we propose a new approach, EchoSegnet, characterized by integrating the ready-to-use knowledge from pretrained 2D audio-visual foundation models synergistically with 3D visual scene representation through spatial audio-aware mask alignment and refinement. Extensive experiments demonstrate that EchoSegnet can effectively segment sounding objects in 3D space on our new benchmark, representing a significant advancement in the field of embodied AI. Project page: this https URL Comments: Accepted at the NeurIPS 2024 Workshop on Audio Imagination; this version updates the project page link Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2411.02236 [cs.CV] (or arXiv:2411.02236v2 [cs.CV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.02236 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Artem Sokolov [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 4 Nov 2024 16:30:14 UTC (6,938 KB) [v2] Mon, 20 Oct 2025 22:40:55 UTC (6,938 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled 3D Audio-Visual Segmentation, by Artem Sokolov and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CV < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
