<!-- source_type: articles -->
# DreamAudio: Customized Text-to-Audio Generation with Diffusion Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06027v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:24.759454+00:00

## Notes

[2509.06027v2] DreamAudio: Customized Text-to-Audio Generation with Diffusion Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2509.06027v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2509.06027v2 (cs) [Submitted on 7 Sep 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 24 Mar 2026 (this version, v2)] Title: DreamAudio: Customized Text-to-Audio Generation with Diffusion Models Authors: Yi Yuan , Xubo Liu , Haohe Liu , Xiyuan Kang , Zhuo Chen , Yuxuan Wang , Mark D. Plumbley , Wenwu Wang View a PDF of the paper titled DreamAudio: Customized Text-to-Audio Generation with Diffusion Models, by Yi Yuan and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: With the development of large-scale diffusion-based and language-modeling-based generative models, impressive progress has been achieved in text-to-audio generation. Despite producing high-quality outputs, existing text-to-audio models mainly aim to generate semantically aligned sound and fall short of controlling fine-grained acoustic characteristics of specific sounds. As a result, users who need specific sound content may find it difficult to generate the desired audio clips. In this paper, we present DreamAudio for customized text-to-audio generation (CTTA). Specifically, we introduce a new framework that is designed to enable the model to identify auditory information from user-provided reference concepts for audio generation. Given a few reference audio samples containing personalized audio events, our system can generate new audio samples that include these specific events. In addition, two types of datasets are developed for training and testing the proposed systems. The experiments show that DreamAudio generates audio samples that are highly consistent with the customized audio features and aligned well with the input text prompts. Furthermore, DreamAudio offers comparable performance in general text-to-audio tasks. We also provide a human-involved dataset containing audio events from real-world CTTA cases as the benchmark for customized generation tasks. Comments: Accepted by IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing. Demos are available at this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2509.06027 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2509.06027v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2509.06027 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Yi Yuan [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 7 Sep 2025 12:06:21 UTC (2,659 KB) [v2] Tue, 24 Mar 2026 15:53:22 UTC (3,409 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled DreamAudio: Customized Text-to-Audio Generation with Diffusion Models, by Yi Yuan and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
