<!-- source_type: articles -->
# No Encore: Unlearning as Opt-Out in Music Generation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06277v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:30.406820+00:00

## Notes

[2509.06277v2] No Encore: Unlearning as Opt-Out in Music Generation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2509.06277v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:2509.06277v2 (cs) [Submitted on 8 Sep 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 24 Sep 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: No Encore: Unlearning as Opt-Out in Music Generation Authors: Jinju Kim , Taehan Kim , Abdul Waheed , Jong Hwan , Rita Singh View a PDF of the paper titled No Encore: Unlearning as Opt-Out in Music Generation, by Jinju Kim and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: AI music generation is rapidly emerging in the creative industries, enabling intuitive music generation from textual descriptions. However, these systems pose risks in exploitation of copyrighted creations, raising ethical and legal concerns. In this paper, we present preliminary results on the first application of machine unlearning techniques from an ongoing research to prevent inadvertent usage of creative content. Particularly, we explore existing methods in machine unlearning to a pre-trained Text-to-Music (TTM) baseline and analyze their efficacy in unlearning pre-trained datasets without harming model performance. Through our experiments, we provide insights into the challenges of applying unlearning in music generation, offering a foundational analysis for future works on the application of unlearning for music generative models. Comments: NeurIPS 2025 Workshop on AI for Music Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) Cite as: arXiv:2509.06277 [cs.CL] (or arXiv:2509.06277v2 [cs.CL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2509.06277 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Abdul Waheed [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 8 Sep 2025 01:56:51 UTC (197 KB) [v2] Wed, 24 Sep 2025 00:07:25 UTC (196 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled No Encore: Unlearning as Opt-Out in Music Generation, by Jinju Kim and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CL < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-09 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
