<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Graph Signal Denoising Using Regularization by Denoising and Its Parameter Estimation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2512.14213v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:29.536076+00:00

## Notes

[2512.14213v2] Graph Signal Denoising Using Regularization by Denoising and Its Parameter Estimation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2512.14213v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2512.14213v2 (eess) [Submitted on 16 Dec 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Feb 2026 (this version, v2)] Title: Graph Signal Denoising Using Regularization by Denoising and Its Parameter Estimation Authors: Hayate Kojima , Hiroshi Higashi , Yuichi Tanaka View a PDF of the paper titled Graph Signal Denoising Using Regularization by Denoising and Its Parameter Estimation, by Hayate Kojima and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: In this paper, we propose an interpretable denoising method for graph signals using regularization by denoising (RED). RED is a technique developed for image restoration that uses an efficient (and sometimes black-box) denoiser in the regularization term of the optimization problem. By using RED, optimization problems can be designed with the explicit use of the denoiser, and the gradient of the regularization term can be easily computed under mild conditions. We adapt RED for denoising of graph signals beyond image processing. We show that many graph signal denoisers, including graph neural networks, theoretically or practically satisfy the conditions for RED. We also study the effectiveness of RED from a graph filter perspective. Furthermore, we propose supervised and unsupervised parameter estimation methods based on deep algorithm unrolling. These methods aim to enhance the algorithm applicability, particularly in the unsupervised setting. Denoising experiments for synthetic and real-world datasets show that our proposed method improves signal denoising accuracy in mean squared error compared to existing graph signal denoising methods. Comments: Submitted to APSIPA Transactions on Signal and Information Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2512.14213 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2512.14213v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2512.14213 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal and Information Processing over Networks, 13 April 2026 (Early Access) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSIPN.2026.3683184 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Hayate Kojima [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 16 Dec 2025 09:10:13 UTC (3,679 KB) [v2] Mon, 9 Feb 2026 07:26:23 UTC (3,686 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Graph Signal Denoising Using Regularization by Denoising and Its Parameter Estimation, by Hayate Kojima and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-12 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
