<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Denoising of discrete-time chaotic signals using echo state networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.06516v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:53.786672+00:00

## Notes

[2304.06516v2] Denoising of discrete-time chaotic signals using echo state networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2304.06516v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2304.06516v2 (eess) [Submitted on 3 Apr 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Sep 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Denoising of discrete-time chaotic signals using echo state networks Authors: André L. O. Duarte , Marcio Eisencraft View a PDF of the paper titled Denoising of discrete-time chaotic signals using echo state networks, by Andr\'e L. O. Duarte and Marcio Eisencraft View PDF Abstract: Noise reduction is a relevant topic when considering the application of chaotic signals in practical problems, such as communication systems or modeling biomedical signals. In this paper an echo state network (ESN) is employed to denoise a discrete-time chaotic signal corrupted by additive white Gaussian noise. The choice for applying ESNs in this context is motivated by their successful exploitation for separation and prediction of chaotic signals. The results show that the processing gain of ESN is higher than that of the Wiener filter, especially when the power spectral density of the chaotic signals is white. Comments: Accepted for publication in Signal Processing - Elsevier Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD) MSC classes: 37 ACM classes: I.2; I.6 Cite as: arXiv:2304.06516 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2304.06516v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2304.06516 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2023.109252 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Marcio Eisencraft [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 3 Apr 2023 17:22:53 UTC (433 KB) [v2] Tue, 19 Sep 2023 17:40:45 UTC (325 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Denoising of discrete-time chaotic signals using echo state networks, by Andr\'e L. O. Duarte and Marcio Eisencraft View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-04 Change to browse by: eess nlin nlin.CD References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
