<!-- source_type: articles -->
# GANkyoku: a Generative Adversarial Network for Shakuhachi Music

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.10119v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:17.149173+00:00

## Notes

[1911.10119v1] GANkyoku: a Generative Adversarial Network for Shakuhachi Music Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1911.10119v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1911.10119v1 (cs) [Submitted on 22 Nov 2019] Title: GANkyoku: a Generative Adversarial Network for Shakuhachi Music Authors: Omar Peracha , Shawn Head View a PDF of the paper titled GANkyoku: a Generative Adversarial Network for Shakuhachi Music, by Omar Peracha and Shawn Head View PDF Abstract: A common approach to generating symbolic music using neural networks involves repeated sampling of an autoregressive model until the full output sequence is obtained. While such approaches have shown some promise in generating short sequences of music, this typically has not extended to cases where the final target sequence is significantly longer, for example an entire piece of music. In this work we propose a network trained in an adversarial process to generate entire pieces of solo shakuhachi music, in the form of symbolic notation. The pieces are intended to refer clearly to traditional shakuhachi music, maintaining idiomaticity and key aesthetic qualities, while also adding novel features, ultimately creating worthy additions to the contemporary shakuhachi repertoire. A key subproblem is also addressed, namely the lack of relevant training data readily available, in two steps: firstly, we introduce the PH_Shaku dataset for symbolic traditional shakuhachi music; secondly, we build on previous work using conditioning in generative adversarial networks to introduce a technique for data augmentation. Comments: Proceedings of the 2019 International Computer Music Conference, ICMC Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) MSC classes: 68T99 Cite as: arXiv:1911.10119 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1911.10119v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1911.10119 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Omar Peracha [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 22 Nov 2019 16:19:40 UTC (177 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled GANkyoku: a Generative Adversarial Network for Shakuhachi Music, by Omar Peracha and Shawn Head View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
