<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Discrete Signal Processing with Set Functions

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.10290v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:46.664612+00:00

## Notes

[2001.10290v2] Discrete Signal Processing with Set Functions Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2001.10290v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:2001.10290v2 (cs) [Submitted on 28 Jan 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 22 Oct 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: Discrete Signal Processing with Set Functions Authors: Markus Püschel , Chris Wendler View a PDF of the paper titled Discrete Signal Processing with Set Functions, by Markus P\"uschel and Chris Wendler View PDF Abstract: Set functions are functions (or signals) indexed by the powerset (set of all subsets) of a finite set N. They are fundamental and ubiquitous in many application domains and have been used, for example, to formally describe or quantify loss functions for semantic image segmentation, the informativeness of sensors in sensor networks the utility of sets of items in recommender systems, cooperative games in game theory, or bidders in combinatorial auctions. In particular, the subclass of submodular functions occurs in many optimization and machine learning problems. In this paper, we derive discrete-set signal processing (SP), a novel shift-invariant linear signal processing framework for set functions. Discrete-set SP considers different notions of shift obtained from set union and difference operations. For each shift it provides associated notions of shift-invariant filters, convolution, Fourier transform, and frequency response. We provide intuition for our framework using the concept of generalized coverage function that we define, identify multivariate mutual information as a special case of a discrete-set spectrum, and motivate frequency ordering. Our work brings a new set of tools for analyzing and processing set functions, and, in particular, for dealing with their exponential nature. We show two prototypical applications and experiments: compression in submodular function optimization and sampling for preference elicitation in combinatorial auctions. Comments: 16 pages, submitted for publication Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2001.10290 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:2001.10290v2 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2001.10290 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, Vol. 69, pp. 1039-1053, 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2020.3046972 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Markus Püschel [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 28 Jan 2020 12:19:57 UTC (131 KB) [v2] Thu, 22 Oct 2020 09:10:41 UTC (786 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Discrete Signal Processing with Set Functions, by Markus P\"uschel and Chris Wendler View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.SP math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Markus Püschel export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
