<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Estimating and Analyzing Neural Information Flow Using Signal Processing on Graphs

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2205.13719v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:13.774062+00:00

## Notes

[2205.13719v3] Estimating and Analyzing Neural Information Flow Using Signal Processing on Graphs Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2205.13719v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2205.13719v3 (eess) [Submitted on 27 May 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Jun 2023 (this version, v3)] Title: Estimating and Analyzing Neural Information Flow Using Signal Processing on Graphs Authors: Felix Schwock , Julien Bloch , Les Atlas , Shima Abadi , Azadeh Yazdan-Shahmorad View a PDF of the paper titled Estimating and Analyzing Neural Information Flow Using Signal Processing on Graphs, by Felix Schwock and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Correlating neural communication in brain networks with behavior and cognition can provide fundamental insights into the functionality of both healthy and diseased brains. We demonstrate how communication in the brain can be estimated from recorded neural activity using concepts from graph signal processing. The communication is modeled as a flow signals on the edges of a graph and naturally arises from a graph diffusion process. We apply the diffusion model to micro-electrocorticography (ECoG) recordings from sensorimotor cortex of two non-human primates to estimate the neural communication flow during excitatory optogenetics. Comparisons with a baseline model demonstrate that adding the neural flow can improve ECoG predictions. Finally, we demonstrate how the neural flow can be decomposed into a gradient and rotational component and show that the gradient component depends on the location of stimulation. This technique, for the first time, offers the opportunity to study neural communication on an unprecedented spatiotemporal scale. Comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, supplementary paper to IEEE SPS 5-Minute Video Clip Contest (5-MICC) entry "Analyzing Neural Flow Using Signal Processing on Graphs" at ICASSP 2022 ( this https URL accepted at ICASSP 2023 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2205.13719 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2205.13719v3 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2205.13719 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Felix Schwock [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 27 May 2022 02:25:28 UTC (210 KB) [v2] Sat, 11 Jun 2022 00:22:17 UTC (211 KB) [v3] Mon, 19 Jun 2023 22:07:38 UTC (213 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Estimating and Analyzing Neural Information Flow Using Signal Processing on Graphs, by Felix Schwock and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-05 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
