<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Low-Complexity Memoryless Linearizer for Analog-to-Digital Interfaces

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.05849v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:40.493038+00:00

## Notes

[2304.05849v2] Low-Complexity Memoryless Linearizer for Analog-to-Digital Interfaces Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2304.05849v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2304.05849v2 (eess) [Submitted on 12 Apr 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 18 Sep 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Low-Complexity Memoryless Linearizer for Analog-to-Digital Interfaces Authors: Deijany Rodriguez Linares , Håkan Johansson View a PDF of the paper titled Low-Complexity Memoryless Linearizer for Analog-to-Digital Interfaces, by Deijany Rodriguez Linares and H{\aa}kan Johansson View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This paper introduces a low-complexity memoryless linearizer for suppression of distortion in analog-to-digital interfaces. It is inspired by neural networks, but has a substantially lower complexity than the neural-network schemes that have appeared earlier in the literature in this context. The paper demonstrates that the proposed linearizer can outperform the conventional parallel memoryless Hammerstein linearizer even when the nonlinearities have been generated through a memoryless polynomial model. Further, a design procedure is proposed in which the linearizer parameters are obtained through matrix inversion. Thereby, the costly and time consuming numerical optimization that is traditionally used when training neural networks is eliminated. Moreover, the design and evaluation incorporate a large set of multi-tone signals covering the first Nyquist band. Simulations show signal-to-noise-and-distortion ratio (SNDR) improvements of some 25 dB for multi-tone signals that correspond to the quadrature parts of OFDM signals with QPSK modulation. Comments: Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Digital Signal Processing (DSP), Rhodes, Greece, pp. 1-5, 2023 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2304.05849 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2304.05849v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2304.05849 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/DSP58604.2023.10167765 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Deijany Rodríguez Linares [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 12 Apr 2023 13:27:20 UTC (963 KB) [v2] Thu, 18 Sep 2025 17:49:57 UTC (233 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Low-Complexity Memoryless Linearizer for Analog-to-Digital Interfaces, by Deijany Rodriguez Linares and H{\aa}kan Johansson View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-04 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
