<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio-Based Search and Rescue with a Drone: Highlights from the IEEE Signal Processing Cup 2019 Student Competition

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04655v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:44.001056+00:00

## Notes

[1907.04655v1] Audio-Based Search and Rescue with a Drone: Highlights from the IEEE Signal Processing Cup 2019 Student Competition Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1907.04655v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1907.04655v1 (eess) [Submitted on 3 Jul 2019] Title: Audio-Based Search and Rescue with a Drone: Highlights from the IEEE Signal Processing Cup 2019 Student Competition Authors: Antoine Deleforge , Diego Di Carlo , Martin Strauss , Romain Serizel , Lucio Marcenaro View a PDF of the paper titled Audio-Based Search and Rescue with a Drone: Highlights from the IEEE Signal Processing Cup 2019 Student Competition, by Antoine Deleforge and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), commonly referred to as drones, have raised increasing interest in recent years. Search and rescue scenarios where humans in emergency situations need to be quickly found in areas difficult to access constitute an important field of application for this technology. While research efforts have mostly focused on developing video-based solutions for this task \cite{lopez2017cvemergency}, UAV-embedded audio-based localization has received relatively less attention. Though, UAVs equipped with a microphone array could be of critical help to localize people in emergency situations, in particular when video sensors are limited by a lack of visual feedback due to bad lighting conditions or obstacles limiting the field of view. This motivated the topic of the 6th edition of the IEEE Signal Processing Cup (SP Cup): a UAV-embedded sound source localization challenge for search and rescue. In this article, we share an overview of the IEEE SP Cup experience including the competition tasks, participating teams, technical approaches and statistics. Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1907.04655 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1907.04655v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1907.04655 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, In press Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2019.2924687 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Antoine Deleforge [ view email ] [via CCSD proxy] [v1] Wed, 3 Jul 2019 09:04:50 UTC (2,393 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio-Based Search and Rescue with a Drone: Highlights from the IEEE Signal Processing Cup 2019 Student Competition, by Antoine Deleforge and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
