<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Binamix -- A Python Library for Generating Binaural Audio Datasets

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.01369v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:39.679693+00:00

## Notes

[2505.01369v1] Binamix -- A Python Library for Generating Binaural Audio Datasets Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2505.01369v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2505.01369v1 (cs) [Submitted on 2 May 2025] Title: Binamix -- A Python Library for Generating Binaural Audio Datasets Authors: Dan Barry , Davoud Shariat Panah , Alessandro Ragano , Jan Skoglund , Andrew Hines View a PDF of the paper titled Binamix -- A Python Library for Generating Binaural Audio Datasets, by Dan Barry and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The increasing demand for spatial audio in applications such as virtual reality, immersive media, and spatial audio research necessitates robust solutions to generate binaural audio data sets for use in testing and validation. Binamix is an open-source Python library designed to facilitate programmatic binaural mixing using the extensive SADIE II Database, which provides Head Related Impulse Response (HRIR) and Binaural Room Impulse Response (BRIR) data for 20 subjects. The Binamix library provides a flexible and repeatable framework for creating large-scale spatial audio datasets, making it an invaluable resource for codec evaluation, audio quality metric development, and machine learning model training. A range of pre-built example scripts, utility functions, and visualization plots further streamline the process of custom pipeline creation. This paper presents an overview of the library's capabilities, including binaural rendering, impulse response interpolation, and multi-track mixing for various speaker layouts. The tools utilize a modified Delaunay triangulation technique to achieve accurate HRIR/BRIR interpolation where desired angles are not present in the data. By supporting a wide range of parameters such as azimuth, elevation, subject Impulse Responses (IRs), speaker layouts, mixing controls, and more, the library enables researchers to create large binaural datasets for any downstream purpose. Binamix empowers researchers and developers to advance spatial audio applications with reproducible methodologies by offering an open-source solution for binaural rendering and dataset generation. We release the library under the Apache 2.0 License at this https URL Comments: Accepted to the 158th Audio Engineering Society Convention, 2025 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2505.01369 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2505.01369v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.01369 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Dan Barry [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 2 May 2025 16:17:00 UTC (458 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Binamix -- A Python Library for Generating Binaural Audio Datasets, by Dan Barry and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-05 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
