<!-- source_type: articles -->
# An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Millimeter Wave MIMO Systems

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03007v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:23.305947+00:00

## Notes

[1512.03007v1] An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Millimeter Wave MIMO Systems Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1512.03007v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1512.03007v1 (cs) [Submitted on 9 Dec 2015] Title: An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Millimeter Wave MIMO Systems Authors: Robert W. Heath Jr. , Nuria Gonzalez-Prelcic , Sundeep Rangan , Wonil Roh , Akbar Sayeed View a PDF of the paper titled An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Millimeter Wave MIMO Systems, by Robert W. Heath Jr. and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Communication at millimeter wave (mmWave) frequencies is defining a new era of wireless communication. The mmWave band offers higher bandwidth communication channels versus those presently used in commercial wireless systems. The applications of mmWave are immense: wireless local and personal area networks in the unlicensed band, 5G cellular systems, not to mention vehicular area networks, ad hoc networks, and wearables. Signal processing is critical for enabling the next generation of mmWave communication. Due to the use of large antenna arrays at the transmitter and receiver, combined with radio frequency and mixed signal power constraints, new multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) communication signal processing techniques are needed. Because of the wide bandwidths, low complexity transceiver algorithms become important. There are opportunities to exploit techniques like compressed sensing for channel estimation and beamforming. This article provides an overview of signal processing challenges in mmWave wireless systems, with an emphasis on those faced by using MIMO communication at higher carrier frequencies. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1512.03007 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1512.03007v1 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1512.03007 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/JSTSP.2016.2523924 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Nuria Gonzalez-Prelcic [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 9 Dec 2015 19:32:39 UTC (472 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Millimeter Wave MIMO Systems, by Robert W. Heath Jr. and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2015-12 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Robert W. Heath Jr. Nuria González Prelcic Sundeep Rangan Wonil Roh Akbar M. Sayeed export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
