<!-- source_type: articles -->
# ICE: a scalable, low-cost FPGA-based telescope signal processing and networking system

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.06262v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:58.627448+00:00

## Notes

[1608.06262v1] ICE: a scalable, low-cost FPGA-based telescope signal processing and networking system Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > astro-ph > arXiv:1608.06262v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Astrophysics > Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics arXiv:1608.06262v1 (astro-ph) [Submitted on 22 Aug 2016] Title: ICE: a scalable, low-cost FPGA-based telescope signal processing and networking system Authors: K. Bandura , A.N. Bender , J.F. Cliche , T. de Haan , M.A. Dobbs , A.J. Gilbert , S. Griffin , G. Hsyu , D. Ittah , J. Mena Parra , J. Montgomery , T. Pinsonneault-Marotte , S. Siegel , G. Smecher , Q.Y. Tang , K. Vanderlinde , N. Whitehorn View a PDF of the paper titled ICE: a scalable, low-cost FPGA-based telescope signal processing and networking system, by K. Bandura and 16 other authors View PDF Abstract: We present an overview of the 'ICE' hardware and software framework that implements large arrays of interconnected FPGA-based data acquisition, signal processing and networking nodes economically. The system was conceived for application to radio, millimeter and sub-millimeter telescope readout systems that have requirements beyond typical off-the-shelf processing systems, such as careful control of interference signals produced by the digital electronics, and clocking of all elements in the system from a single precise observatory-derived oscillator. A new generation of telescopes operating at these frequency bands and designed with a vastly increased emphasis on digital signal processing to support their detector multiplexing technology or high-bandwidth correlators---data rates exceeding a terabyte per second---are becoming common. The ICE system is built around a custom FPGA motherboard that makes use of an Xilinx Kintex-7 FPGA and ARM-based co-processor. The system is specialized for specific applications through software, firmware, and custom mezzanine daughter boards that interface to the FPGA through the industry-standard FMC specifications. For high density applications, the motherboards are packaged in 16-slot crates with ICE backplanes that implement a low-cost passive full-mesh network between the motherboards in a crate, allow high bandwidth interconnection between crates, and enable data offload to a computer cluster. A Python-based control software library automatically detects and operates the hardware in the array. Examples of specific telescope applications of the ICE framework are presented, namely the frequency-multiplexed bolometer readout systems used for the SPT and Simons Array and the digitizer, F-engine, and networking engine for the CHIME and HIRAX radio interferometers. Comments: 20 pages, 8 figures. Submitted to JAI special issue on Digital Signal Processing in Radio Astronomy (2016) Subjects: Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM) ; Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO) Cite as: arXiv:1608.06262 [astro-ph.IM] (or arXiv:1608.06262v1 [astro-ph.IM] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1608.06262 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Juan Mena Parra [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 22 Aug 2016 19:01:08 UTC (19,037 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled ICE: a scalable, low-cost FPGA-based telescope signal processing and networking system, by K. Bandura and 16 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: astro-ph.IM < prev | next > new | recent | 2016-08 Change to browse by: astro-ph astro-ph.CO References & Citations INSPIRE HEP NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
