<!-- source_type: articles -->
# PIAST: A Multimodal Piano Dataset with Audio, Symbolic and Text

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02551v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:10.087205+00:00

## Notes

[2411.02551v2] PIAST: A Multimodal Piano Dataset with Audio, Symbolic and Text Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2411.02551v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2411.02551v2 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Nov 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 7 Nov 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: PIAST: A Multimodal Piano Dataset with Audio, Symbolic and Text Authors: Hayeon Bang , Eunjin Choi , Megan Finch , Seungheon Doh , Seolhee Lee , Gyeong-Hoon Lee , Juhan Nam View a PDF of the paper titled PIAST: A Multimodal Piano Dataset with Audio, Symbolic and Text, by Hayeon Bang and 6 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: While piano music has become a significant area of study in Music Information Retrieval (MIR), there is a notable lack of datasets for piano solo music with text labels. To address this gap, we present PIAST (PIano dataset with Audio, Symbolic, and Text), a piano music dataset. Utilizing a piano-specific taxonomy of semantic tags, we collected 9,673 tracks from YouTube and added human annotations for 2,023 tracks by music experts, resulting in two subsets: PIAST-YT and PIAST-AT. Both include audio, text, tag annotations, and transcribed MIDI utilizing state-of-the-art piano transcription and beat tracking models. Among many possible tasks with the multi-modal dataset, we conduct music tagging and retrieval using both audio and MIDI data and report baseline performances to demonstrate its potential as a valuable resource for MIR research. Comments: Accepted for publication at the 3rd Workshop on NLP for Music and Audio (NLP4MusA 2024) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2411.02551 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2411.02551v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.02551 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Hayeon Bang [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 4 Nov 2024 19:34:13 UTC (4,481 KB) [v2] Thu, 7 Nov 2024 07:18:51 UTC (4,481 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled PIAST: A Multimodal Piano Dataset with Audio, Symbolic and Text, by Hayeon Bang and 6 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
