<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Generalized Graph Signal Sampling by Difference-of-Convex Optimization

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.14634v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:58.118716+00:00

## Notes

[2306.14634v2] Generalized Graph Signal Sampling by Difference-of-Convex Optimization Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2306.14634v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2306.14634v2 (eess) [Submitted on 26 Jun 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 28 Feb 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Generalized Graph Signal Sampling by Difference-of-Convex Optimization Authors: Keitaro Yamashita , Kazuki Naganuma , Shunsuke Ono View a PDF of the paper titled Generalized Graph Signal Sampling by Difference-of-Convex Optimization, by Keitaro Yamashita and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: We propose a desigining method of a flexible sampling operator for graph signals via a difference-of-convex (DC) optimization algorithm. A fundamental challenge in graph signal processing is sampling, especially for graph signals that are not bandlimited. In order to sample beyond bandlimited graph signals, there are studies to expand the generalized sampling theory for the graph setting. Vertex-wise sampling and flexible sampling are two main strategies to sample graph signals. Recovery accuracy of existing vertex-wise sampling methods is highly dependent on specific vertices selected to generate a sampled graph signal that may compromise the accurary especially when noise is generated at the vertices. In contrast, a flexible sampling mixes values at multiple vertices to generate a sampled signal for robust sampling; however, existing flexible sampling methods impose strict assumptions and aggressive relaxations. To address these limitations, we aim to design a flexible sampling operator without such strict assumptions and aggressive relaxations by introducing DC optimization. By formulating the problem of designing a flexible sampling operator as a DC optimization problem, our method ensures robust sampling for graph signals under arbitrary priors based on generalized sampling theory. We develop an efficient solver based on the general double-proximal gradient DC algorithm, which guarantees convergence to a critical point. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our method in sampling and recovering beyond bandlimited graph signals compared to existing approaches. Comments: Submitted to the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2306.14634 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2306.14634v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2306.14634 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Keitaro Yamashita Mr [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 26 Jun 2023 12:13:12 UTC (361 KB) [v2] Fri, 28 Feb 2025 07:38:43 UTC (4,491 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Generalized Graph Signal Sampling by Difference-of-Convex Optimization, by Keitaro Yamashita and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-06 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
