<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A study of audio mixing methods for piano transcription in violin-piano ensembles

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13758v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:30.395100+00:00

## Notes

[2305.13758v1] A study of audio mixing methods for piano transcription in violin-piano ensembles Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2305.13758v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2305.13758v1 (cs) [Submitted on 23 May 2023] Title: A study of audio mixing methods for piano transcription in violin-piano ensembles Authors: Hyemi Kim , Jiyun Park , Taegyun Kwon , Dasaem Jeong , Juhan Nam View a PDF of the paper titled A study of audio mixing methods for piano transcription in violin-piano ensembles, by Hyemi Kim and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: While piano music transcription models have shown high performance for solo piano recordings, their performance degrades when applied to ensemble recordings. This study aims to analyze the impact of different data augmentation methods on piano transcription performance, specifically focusing on mixing techniques applied to violin-piano ensembles. We apply mixing methods that consider both harmonic and temporal characteristics of the audio. To create datasets for this study, we generated the PFVN-synth dataset, which contains 7 hours of violin-piano ensemble audio by rendering MIDI files and corresponding labels, and also collected unaccompanied violin recordings and mixed them with the MAESTRO dataset. We evaluated the transcription results on both synthesized and real audio recordings datasets. Comments: To Appear IEEE ICASSP 2023 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2305.13758 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2305.13758v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.13758 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Hyemi Kim [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 23 May 2023 07:19:18 UTC (1,850 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A study of audio mixing methods for piano transcription in violin-piano ensembles, by Hyemi Kim and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-05 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
