<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Introduction to Gestural Similarity in Music. An Application of Category Theory to the Orchestra

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.10340v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:43.671165+00:00

## Notes

[1904.10340v1] Introduction to Gestural Similarity in Music. An Application of Category Theory to the Orchestra Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > math > arXiv:1904.10340v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Mathematics > History and Overview arXiv:1904.10340v1 (math) [Submitted on 22 Apr 2019] Title: Introduction to Gestural Similarity in Music. An Application of Category Theory to the Orchestra Authors: Maria Mannone View a PDF of the paper titled Introduction to Gestural Similarity in Music. An Application of Category Theory to the Orchestra, by Maria Mannone View PDF Abstract: Mathematics, and more generally computational sciences, intervene in several aspects of music. Mathematics describes the acoustics of the sounds giving formal tools to physics, and the matter of music itself in terms of compositional structures and strategies. Mathematics can also be applied to the entire making of music, from the score to the performance, connecting compositional structures to acoustical reality of sounds. Moreover, the precise concept of gesture has a decisive role in understanding musical performance. In this paper, we apply some concepts of category theory to compare gestures of orchestral musicians, and to investigate the relationship between orchestra and conductor, as well as between listeners and conductor/orchestra. To this aim, we will introduce the concept of gestural similarity. The mathematical tools used can be applied to gesture classification, and to interdisciplinary comparisons between music and visual arts. Comments: The final version of this paper has been published by the Journal of Mathematics and Music Subjects: History and Overview (math.HO) ; Category Theory (math.CT) MSC classes: 18B05, 18B10, 16D90, 03B52 Cite as: arXiv:1904.10340 [math.HO] (or arXiv:1904.10340v1 [math.HO] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1904.10340 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Journal of Mathematics and Music, 12:2, 63-87, 2018 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1080/17459737.2018.1450902 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Maria Mannone [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 22 Apr 2019 08:33:19 UTC (4,295 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Introduction to Gestural Similarity in Music. An Application of Category Theory to the Orchestra, by Maria Mannone View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: math.HO < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-04 Change to browse by: math math.CT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
