<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Improving Choral Music Separation through Expressive Synthesized Data from Sampled Instruments

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.02871v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:47.314082+00:00

## Notes

[2209.02871v1] Improving Choral Music Separation through Expressive Synthesized Data from Sampled Instruments Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2209.02871v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2209.02871v1 (cs) [Submitted on 7 Sep 2022] Title: Improving Choral Music Separation through Expressive Synthesized Data from Sampled Instruments Authors: Ke Chen , Hao-Wen Dong , Yi Luo , Julian McAuley , Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick , Miller Puckette , Shlomo Dubnov View a PDF of the paper titled Improving Choral Music Separation through Expressive Synthesized Data from Sampled Instruments, by Ke Chen and Hao-Wen Dong and Yi Luo and Julian McAuley and Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick and Miller Puckette and Shlomo Dubnov View PDF Abstract: Choral music separation refers to the task of extracting tracks of voice parts (e.g., soprano, alto, tenor, and bass) from mixed audio. The lack of datasets has impeded research on this topic as previous work has only been able to train and evaluate models on a few minutes of choral music data due to copyright issues and dataset collection difficulties. In this paper, we investigate the use of synthesized training data for the source separation task on real choral music. We make three contributions: first, we provide an automated pipeline for synthesizing choral music data from sampled instrument plugins within controllable options for instrument expressiveness. This produces an 8.2-hour-long choral music dataset from the JSB Chorales Dataset and one can easily synthesize additional data. Second, we conduct an experiment to evaluate multiple separation models on available choral music separation datasets from previous work. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first experiment to comprehensively evaluate choral music separation. Third, experiments demonstrate that the synthesized choral data is of sufficient quality to improve the model's performance on real choral music datasets. This provides additional experimental statistics and data support for the choral music separation study. Comments: Camera Ready for Proceedings of the 23rd International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, ISMIR 2022 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2209.02871 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2209.02871v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2209.02871 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: The 23rd International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, 2022 Submission history From: Ke Chen [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 7 Sep 2022 01:13:59 UTC (3,247 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Improving Choral Music Separation through Expressive Synthesized Data from Sampled Instruments, by Ke Chen and Hao-Wen Dong and Yi Luo and Julian McAuley and Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick and Miller Puckette and Shlomo Dubnov View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
