<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Functional Taxonomy of Music Generation Systems

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04186v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:40.956798+00:00

## Notes

[1812.04186v1] A Functional Taxonomy of Music Generation Systems Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1812.04186v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1812.04186v1 (cs) [Submitted on 11 Dec 2018] Title: A Functional Taxonomy of Music Generation Systems Authors: Dorien Herremans , Ching-Hua Chuan , Elaine Chew View a PDF of the paper titled A Functional Taxonomy of Music Generation Systems, by Dorien Herremans and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Digital advances have transformed the face of automatic music generation since its beginnings at the dawn of computing. Despite the many breakthroughs, issues such as the musical tasks targeted by different machines and the degree to which they succeed remain open questions. We present a functional taxonomy for music generation systems with reference to existing systems. The taxonomy organizes systems according to the purposes for which they were designed. It also reveals the inter-relatedness amongst the systems. This design-centered approach contrasts with predominant methods-based surveys and facilitates the identification of grand challenges to set the stage for new breakthroughs. Comments: survey, music generation, taxonomy, functional survey, survey, automatic composition, algorithmic composition Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) MSC classes: 68Txx, 68-XX Cite as: arXiv:1812.04186 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1812.04186v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1812.04186 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 50(5), 69. https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3145473.3108242 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1145/3108242 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Dorien Herremans [ view email ] [via Dorien Herremans as proxy] [v1] Tue, 11 Dec 2018 02:07:06 UTC (1,052 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Functional Taxonomy of Music Generation Systems, by Dorien Herremans and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Dorien Herremans Ching-Hua Chuan Elaine Chew export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
