<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Robust Joint Alignment of Multiple Versions of a Piece of Music

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1604.08516v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:09.157217+00:00

## Notes

[1604.08516v1] Robust Joint Alignment of Multiple Versions of a Piece of Music Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1604.08516v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1604.08516v1 (cs) [Submitted on 28 Apr 2016] Title: Robust Joint Alignment of Multiple Versions of a Piece of Music Authors: Siying Wang , Sebastian Ewert , Simon Dixon View a PDF of the paper titled Robust Joint Alignment of Multiple Versions of a Piece of Music, by Siying Wang and Sebastian Ewert and Simon Dixon View PDF Abstract: Large music content libraries often comprise multiple versions of a piece of music. To establish a link between different versions, automatic music alignment methods map each position in one version to a corresponding position in another version. Due to the leeway in interpreting a piece, any two versions can differ significantly, for example, in terms of local tempo, articulation, or playing style. For a given pair of versions, these differences can be significant such that even state-of-the-art methods fail to identify a correct alignment. In this paper, we present a novel method that increases the robustness for difficult to align cases. Instead of aligning only pairs of versions as done in previous methods, our method aligns multiple versions in a joint manner. This way, the alignment can be computed by comparing each version not only with one but with several versions, which stabilizes the comparison and leads to an increase in alignment robustness. Using recordings from the Mazurka Project, the alignment error for our proposed method was 14% lower on average compared to a state-of-the-art method, with significantly less outliers (standard deviation 53% lower). Comments: International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:1604.08516 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1604.08516v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1604.08516 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proceedings of the International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR), Taipei, Taiwan, pp. 83-88, 2014 Submission history From: Sebastian Ewert [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 28 Apr 2016 17:03:27 UTC (3,054 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Robust Joint Alignment of Multiple Versions of a Piece of Music, by Siying Wang and Sebastian Ewert and Simon Dixon View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2016-04 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Siying Wang Sebastian Ewert Simon Dixon export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
