<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Multi-Head Relevance Weighting Framework For Learning Raw Waveform Audio Representations

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2107.14793v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:32.755713+00:00

## Notes

[2107.14793v1] A Multi-Head Relevance Weighting Framework For Learning Raw Waveform Audio Representations Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2107.14793v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2107.14793v1 (eess) [Submitted on 30 Jul 2021] Title: A Multi-Head Relevance Weighting Framework For Learning Raw Waveform Audio Representations Authors: Debottam Dutta , Purvi Agrawal , Sriram Ganapathy View a PDF of the paper titled A Multi-Head Relevance Weighting Framework For Learning Raw Waveform Audio Representations, by Debottam Dutta and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this work, we propose a multi-head relevance weighting framework to learn audio representations from raw waveforms. The audio waveform, split into windows of short duration, are processed with a 1-D convolutional layer of cosine modulated Gaussian filters acting as a learnable filterbank. The key novelty of the proposed framework is the introduction of multi-head relevance on the learnt filterbank representations. Each head of the relevance network is modelled as a separate sub-network. These heads perform representation enhancement by generating weight masks for different parts of the time-frequency representation learnt by the parametric acoustic filterbank layer. The relevance weighted representations are fed to a neural classifier and the whole system is trained jointly for the audio classification objective. Experiments are performed on the DCASE2020 Task 1A challenge as well as the Urban Sound Classification (USC) tasks. In these experiments, the proposed approach yields relative improvements of 10% and 23% respectively for the DCASE2020 and USC datasets over the mel-spectrogram baseline. Also, the analysis of multi-head relevance weights provides insights on the learned representations. Comments: Submitted to 2021 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics(WASPAA 2021) Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2107.14793 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2107.14793v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2107.14793 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Debottam Dutta [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 30 Jul 2021 17:51:32 UTC (2,558 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Multi-Head Relevance Weighting Framework For Learning Raw Waveform Audio Representations, by Debottam Dutta and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
