<!-- source_type: articles -->
# WavJourney: Compositional Audio Creation with Large Language Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14335v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:32.313099+00:00

## Notes

[2307.14335v2] WavJourney: Compositional Audio Creation with Large Language Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2307.14335v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2307.14335v2 (cs) [Submitted on 26 Jul 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 26 Nov 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: WavJourney: Compositional Audio Creation with Large Language Models Authors: Xubo Liu , Zhongkai Zhu , Haohe Liu , Yi Yuan , Meng Cui , Qiushi Huang , Jinhua Liang , Yin Cao , Qiuqiang Kong , Mark D. Plumbley , Wenwu Wang View a PDF of the paper titled WavJourney: Compositional Audio Creation with Large Language Models, by Xubo Liu and 10 other authors View PDF Abstract: Despite breakthroughs in audio generation models, their capabilities are often confined to domain-specific conditions such as speech transcriptions and audio captions. However, real-world audio creation aims to generate harmonious audio containing various elements such as speech, music, and sound effects with controllable conditions, which is challenging to address using existing audio generation systems. We present WavJourney, a novel framework that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to connect various audio models for audio creation. WavJourney allows users to create storytelling audio content with diverse audio elements simply from textual descriptions. Specifically, given a text instruction, WavJourney first prompts LLMs to generate an audio script that serves as a structured semantic representation of audio elements. The audio script is then converted into a computer program, where each line of the program calls a task-specific audio generation model or computational operation function. The computer program is then executed to obtain a compositional and interpretable solution for audio creation. Experimental results suggest that WavJourney is capable of synthesizing realistic audio aligned with textually-described semantic, spatial and temporal conditions, achieving state-of-the-art results on text-to-audio generation benchmarks. Additionally, we introduce a new multi-genre story benchmark. Subjective evaluations demonstrate the potential of WavJourney in crafting engaging storytelling audio content from text. We further demonstrate that WavJourney can facilitate human-machine co-creation in multi-round dialogues. To foster future research, the code and synthesized audio are available at: this https URL . Comments: GitHub: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2307.14335 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2307.14335v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.14335 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Xubo Liu [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 26 Jul 2023 17:54:04 UTC (15,404 KB) [v2] Sun, 26 Nov 2023 14:12:37 UTC (23,284 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled WavJourney: Compositional Audio Creation with Large Language Models, by Xubo Liu and 10 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
