<!-- source_type: articles -->
# VALOR: Vision-Audio-Language Omni-Perception Pretraining Model and Dataset

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.08345v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:13.660267+00:00

## Notes

[2304.08345v2] VALOR: Vision-Audio-Language Omni-Perception Pretraining Model and Dataset Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2304.08345v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2304.08345v2 (cs) [Submitted on 17 Apr 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 6 Jan 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: VALOR: Vision-Audio-Language Omni-Perception Pretraining Model and Dataset Authors: Jing Liu , Sihan Chen , Xingjian He , Longteng Guo , Xinxin Zhu , Weining Wang , Jinhui Tang View a PDF of the paper titled VALOR: Vision-Audio-Language Omni-Perception Pretraining Model and Dataset, by Jing Liu and 6 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: In this paper, we propose a Vision-Audio-Language Omni-peRception pretraining model (VALOR) for multi-modal understanding and generation. Different from widely-studied vision-language pretraining models, VALOR jointly models relationships of vision, audio and language in an end-to-end manner. It contains three separate encoders for single modality representations, and a decoder for multimodal conditional text generation. We design two pretext tasks to pretrain VALOR model, including Multimodal Grouping Alignment (MGA) and Multimodal Grouping Captioning (MGC). MGA projects vision, language and audio to the same common space, building vision-language, audio-language and audiovisual-language alignment simultaneously. MGC learns how to generate text tokens in conditions of vision, audio or their both. To promote vision-audio-language pretraining research, we construct a large-scale high-quality tri-modality dataset named VALOR-1M, which contains 1M audiable videos with human annotated audiovisual captions. Extensive experiments show that VALOR can learn strong multimodal correlations and be generalized to various downstream tasks (e.g., retrieval, captioning and question answering), with different input modalities (e.g., vision-language, audio-language and audiovisual-language). VALOR achieves new state-of-the-art performances on series of public cross-modality benchmarks. Code and data are available at project page this https URL . Comments: Preprint version w/o audio files embeded in PDF. Audio embeded version can be found on project page or github Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2304.08345 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2304.08345v2 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2304.08345 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sihan Chen [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 17 Apr 2023 15:08:15 UTC (4,808 KB) [v2] Mon, 6 Jan 2025 09:10:55 UTC (4,808 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled VALOR: Vision-Audio-Language Omni-Perception Pretraining Model and Dataset, by Jing Liu and 6 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL cs.CV cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
