<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Learning to Traverse Latent Spaces for Musical Score Inpainting

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.01164v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:56.031351+00:00

## Notes

[1907.01164v1] Learning to Traverse Latent Spaces for Musical Score Inpainting Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1907.01164v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:1907.01164v1 (cs) [Submitted on 2 Jul 2019] Title: Learning to Traverse Latent Spaces for Musical Score Inpainting Authors: Ashis Pati , Alexander Lerch , Gaëtan Hadjeres View a PDF of the paper titled Learning to Traverse Latent Spaces for Musical Score Inpainting, by Ashis Pati and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Music Inpainting is the task of filling in missing or lost information in a piece of music. We investigate this task from an interactive music creation perspective. To this end, a novel deep learning-based approach for musical score inpainting is proposed. The designed model takes both past and future musical context into account and is capable of suggesting ways to connect them in a musically meaningful manner. To achieve this, we leverage the representational power of the latent space of a Variational Auto-Encoder and train a Recurrent Neural Network which learns to traverse this latent space conditioned on the past and future musical contexts. Consequently, the designed model is capable of generating several measures of music to connect two musical excerpts. The capabilities and performance of the model are showcased by comparison with competitive baselines using several objective and subjective evaluation methods. The results show that the model generates meaningful inpaintings and can be used in interactive music creation applications. Overall, the method demonstrates the merit of learning complex trajectories in the latent spaces of deep generative models. Comments: 20th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR), 2019, Delft, The Netherlands; 6 pages, 8 figures Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:1907.01164 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:1907.01164v1 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1907.01164 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 20th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR), 2019, Delft, The Netherlands Submission history From: Ashis Pati [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 2 Jul 2019 04:39:05 UTC (798 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Learning to Traverse Latent Spaces for Musical Score Inpainting, by Ashis Pati and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Ashis Pati Alexander Lerch Gaëtan Hadjeres export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
