<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Direct Reconstruction of Distorted Signals and Images Using Shifts Methods

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.07953v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:43.462430+00:00

## Notes

[1901.07953v1] Direct Reconstruction of Distorted Signals and Images Using Shifts Methods Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1901.07953v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1901.07953v1 (eess) [Submitted on 14 Jan 2019] Title: Direct Reconstruction of Distorted Signals and Images Using Shifts Methods Authors: Andrey V. Novikov-Borodin View a PDF of the paper titled Direct Reconstruction of Distorted Signals and Images Using Shifts Methods, by Andrey V. Novikov-Borodin View PDF Abstract: Mathematical methods of step-by-step and combined shifts are proposed for experimental data processing to reconstruct the measuring system impulse response distorted by shift-invariant blur. Proposed methods base on direct non-blind deconvolution without using approximations and integral transforms. Methods are fast and effective for accurate data reconstruction, which gives a possibility of increasing the effective resolution of measuring systems by mathematical methods up to physical limits without solving the expensive and quite difficult scientific and technical problems. Step-by-step and combined shifts methods supplement each other in data reconstruction at different distortions of signals, noise levels and data volumes. Methods may be adapted for reconstruction of multi-dimensional data. There are considered the restorations of 2D images blurred by uniform motion and distorted by functions, which may be factored, such as Gaussian-like functions. The comparative analysis of step-by-step and combined shifts methods is presented. Reconstruction inaccuracies are estimated. Examples of signal reconstructions and image restorations at different distortions are considered. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Trans on Signal Processing, 14-Jan-2019 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1901.07953 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1901.07953v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1901.07953 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Andrey Novikov-Borodin Dr. [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 14 Jan 2019 09:37:23 UTC (1,935 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Direct Reconstruction of Distorted Signals and Images Using Shifts Methods, by Andrey V. Novikov-Borodin View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-01 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
