<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Task-Specific Audio Coding for Machines: Machine-Learned Latent Features Are Codes for That Machine

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2507.12701v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:06.569321+00:00

## Notes

[2507.12701v1] Task-Specific Audio Coding for Machines: Machine-Learned Latent Features Are Codes for That Machine Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2507.12701v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2507.12701v1 (cs) [Submitted on 17 Jul 2025] Title: Task-Specific Audio Coding for Machines: Machine-Learned Latent Features Are Codes for That Machine Authors: Anastasia Kuznetsova , Inseon Jang , Wootaek Lim , Minje Kim View a PDF of the paper titled Task-Specific Audio Coding for Machines: Machine-Learned Latent Features Are Codes for That Machine, by Anastasia Kuznetsova and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Neural audio codecs, leveraging quantization algorithms, have significantly impacted various speech/audio tasks. While high-fidelity reconstruction is paramount for human perception, audio coding for machines (ACoM) prioritizes efficient compression and downstream task performance, disregarding perceptual nuances. This work introduces an efficient ACoM method that can compress and quantize any chosen intermediate feature representation of an already trained speech/audio downstream model. Our approach employs task-specific loss guidance alongside residual vector quantization (RVQ) losses, providing ultra-low bitrates (i.e., less than 200 bps) with a minimal loss of the downstream model performance. The resulting tokenizer is adaptable to various bitrates and model sizes for flexible deployment. Evaluated on automatic speech recognition and audio classification, our method demonstrates its efficacy and potential for broader task and architectural applicability through appropriate regularization. Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2507.12701 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2507.12701v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.12701 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA) 2025 Submission history From: Anastasia Kuznetsova [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 17 Jul 2025 00:32:07 UTC (276 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Task-Specific Audio Coding for Machines: Machine-Learned Latent Features Are Codes for That Machine, by Anastasia Kuznetsova and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
