<!-- source_type: articles -->
# ItôTTS and ItôWave: Linear Stochastic Differential Equation Is All You Need For Audio Generation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2105.07583v5
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:59.535550+00:00

## Notes

[2105.07583v5] ItôTTS and ItôWave: Linear Stochastic Differential Equation Is All You Need For Audio Generation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2105.07583v5 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2105.07583v5 (cs) [Submitted on 17 May 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 29 Jan 2022 (this version, v5)] Title: ItôTTS and ItôWave: Linear Stochastic Differential Equation Is All You Need For Audio Generation Authors: Shoule Wu , Ziqiang Shi View a PDF of the paper titled It\^oTTS and It\^oWave: Linear Stochastic Differential Equation Is All You Need For Audio Generation, by Shoule Wu and Ziqiang Shi View PDF Abstract: In this paper, we propose to unify the two aspects of voice synthesis, namely text-to-speech (TTS) and vocoder, into one framework based on a pair of forward and reverse-time linear stochastic differential equations (SDE). The solutions of this SDE pair are two stochastic processes, one of which turns the distribution of mel spectrogram (or wave), that we want to generate, into a simple and tractable distribution. The other is the generation procedure that turns this tractable simple signal into the target mel spectrogram (or wave). The model that generates mel spectrogram is called ItôTTS, and the model that generates wave is called ItôWave. ItôTTS and ItôWave use the Wiener process as a driver to gradually subtract the excess signal from the noise signal to generate realistic corresponding meaningful mel spectrogram and audio respectively, under the conditional inputs of original text or mel spectrogram. The results of the experiment show that the mean opinion scores (MOS) of ItôTTS and ItôWave can exceed the current state-of-the-art methods, and reached 3.925$\pm$0.160 and 4.35$\pm$0.115 respectively. The generated audio samples are available at this https URL . All authors contribute equally to this work. Comments: The generated audio samples are available at this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2105.07583 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2105.07583v5 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2105.07583 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ziqiang Shi [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 17 May 2021 02:46:15 UTC (9,705 KB) [v2] Thu, 20 May 2021 08:19:06 UTC (9,711 KB) [v3] Mon, 9 Aug 2021 05:48:17 UTC (9,767 KB) [v4] Thu, 12 Aug 2021 03:25:22 UTC (9,767 KB) [v5] Sat, 29 Jan 2022 07:08:54 UTC (9,762 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled It\^oTTS and It\^oWave: Linear Stochastic Differential Equation Is All You Need For Audio Generation, by Shoule Wu and Ziqiang Shi View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-05 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Ziqiang Shi export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
