<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Diffusion Models for Audio Restoration

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09821v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:48.046651+00:00

## Notes

[2402.09821v3] Diffusion Models for Audio Restoration Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2402.09821v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2402.09821v3 (eess) [Submitted on 15 Feb 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 11 Nov 2024 (this version, v3)] Title: Diffusion Models for Audio Restoration Authors: Jean-Marie Lemercier , Julius Richter , Simon Welker , Eloi Moliner , Vesa Välimäki , Timo Gerkmann View a PDF of the paper titled Diffusion Models for Audio Restoration, by Jean-Marie Lemercier and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: With the development of audio playback devices and fast data transmission, the demand for high sound quality is rising for both entertainment and communications. In this quest for better sound quality, challenges emerge from distortions and interferences originating at the recording side or caused by an imperfect transmission pipeline. To address this problem, audio restoration methods aim to recover clean sound signals from the corrupted input data. We present here audio restoration algorithms based on diffusion models, with a focus on speech enhancement and music restoration tasks. Traditional approaches, often grounded in handcrafted rules and statistical heuristics, have shaped our understanding of audio signals. In the past decades, there has been a notable shift towards data-driven methods that exploit the modeling capabilities of DNNs. Deep generative models, and among them diffusion models, have emerged as powerful techniques for learning complex data distributions. However, relying solely on DNN-based learning approaches carries the risk of reducing interpretability, particularly when employing end-to-end models. Nonetheless, data-driven approaches allow more flexibility in comparison to statistical model-based frameworks, whose performance depends on distributional and statistical assumptions that can be difficult to guarantee. Here, we aim to show that diffusion models can combine the best of both worlds and offer the opportunity to design audio restoration algorithms with a good degree of interpretability and a remarkable performance in terms of sound quality. We explain the diffusion formalism and its application to the conditional generation of clean audio signals. We believe that diffusion models open an exciting field of research with the potential to spawn new audio restoration algorithms that are natural-sounding and remain robust in difficult acoustic situations. Comments: Currently in revision for IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Special Issue "Model-based and Data-Driven Audio Signal Processing" Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2402.09821 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2402.09821v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.09821 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, Jan 2025 Submission history From: Jean-Marie Lemercier [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 09:36:36 UTC (7,167 KB) [v2] Mon, 15 Jul 2024 10:15:12 UTC (6,845 KB) [v3] Mon, 11 Nov 2024 18:07:26 UTC (7,162 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Diffusion Models for Audio Restoration, by Jean-Marie Lemercier and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
