<!-- source_type: articles -->
# User Activity Detection for Irregular Repetition Slotted Aloha based MMTC

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2111.06140v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:29.933891+00:00

## Notes

[2111.06140v2] User Activity Detection for Irregular Repetition Slotted Aloha based MMTC Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2111.06140v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2111.06140v2 (eess) [Submitted on 11 Nov 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 23 Jun 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: User Activity Detection for Irregular Repetition Slotted Aloha based MMTC Authors: Chirag Ramesh Srivatsa , Chandra R. Murthy View a PDF of the paper titled User Activity Detection for Irregular Repetition Slotted Aloha based MMTC, by Chirag Ramesh Srivatsa and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Irregular repetition slotted aloha (IRSA) is a grant-free random access protocol for massive machine-type communications, where a large number of users sporadically send their data packets to a base station (BS). IRSA is a completely distributed multiple access protocol: in any given frame, a small subset of the users, i.e., the active users, transmit replicas of their packet in randomly selected resource elements (REs). The first step in the decoding process at the BS is to detect which users are active in each frame. To this end, a novel Bayesian user activity detection (UAD) algorithm is developed, which exploits both the sparsity in user activity as well as the underlying structure of IRSA-based transmissions. Next, the Cramer-Rao bound (CRB) on the mean squared error in channel estimation is derived. It is empirically shown that the channel estimates obtained as a by-product of the proposed UAD algorithm achieves the CRB. Then, the signal to interference plus noise ratio achieved by the users is analyzed, accounting for UAD, channel estimation errors, and pilot contamination. The impact of these non-idealities on the throughput of IRSA is illustrated via Monte Carlo simulations. For example, in a system with 1500 users and 10% of the users being active per frame, a pilot length of as low as 20 symbols is sufficient for accurate user activity detection. In contrast, using classical compressed sensing approaches for UAD would require a pilot length of about 346 symbols. The results also reveal crucial insights into dependence of UAD errors and throughput on parameters such as the length of the pilot sequence, the number of antennas at the BS, the number of users, and the signal to noise ratio. Comments: Accepted at IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, June 2022 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:2111.06140 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2111.06140v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2111.06140 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, Volume 70, June 2022, 3616-3631 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2022.3185891 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Chirag Srivatsa [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 11 Nov 2021 10:48:01 UTC (312 KB) [v2] Thu, 23 Jun 2022 16:41:59 UTC (1,090 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled User Activity Detection for Irregular Repetition Slotted Aloha based MMTC, by Chirag Ramesh Srivatsa and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT eess math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
