<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Building Generalized Neo-Riemannian Groups of Musical Transformations as Extensions

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4451v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:22.279050+00:00

## Notes

[1111.4451v4] Building Generalized Neo-Riemannian Groups of Musical Transformations as Extensions Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > math > arXiv:1111.4451v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Mathematics > Group Theory arXiv:1111.4451v4 (math) [Submitted on 18 Nov 2011 ( v1 ), last revised 12 Aug 2012 (this version, v4)] Title: Building Generalized Neo-Riemannian Groups of Musical Transformations as Extensions Authors: Alexandre Popoff View a PDF of the paper titled Building Generalized Neo-Riemannian Groups of Musical Transformations as Extensions, by Alexandre Popoff View PDF Abstract: Chords in musical harmony can be viewed as objects having shapes (major/minor/etc.) attached to base sets (pitch class sets). The base set and the shape set are usually given the structure of a group, more particularly a cyclic group. In a more general setting, any object could be defined by its position on a base set and by its internal shape or state. The goal of this paper is to determine the structure of simply transitive groups of transformations acting on such sets of objects with internal symmetries. In the main proposition, we state that, under simple axioms, these groups can be built as group extensions of the group associated to the base set by the group associated to the shape set, or the other way. By doing so, interesting groups of transformations are obtained, including the traditional ones such as the dihedral groups. The knowledge of the group structure and product allows to explicitly build group actions on the objects. In particular we differentiate between left and right group actions and we show how they are related to non-contextual and contextual transformations. Finally we show how group extensions can be used to build transformational models of time-spans and rhythms. Comments: 30 pages, 4 figures ; submitted to Journal of Mathematics and Music - v.4: corrected many errors, clarified some propositions Subjects: Group Theory (math.GR) MSC classes: 00A65 Cite as: arXiv:1111.4451 [math.GR] (or arXiv:1111.4451v4 [math.GR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1111.4451 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Journal of Mathematics and Music, 2013, 7 (1), pp. 55-72 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1080/17459737.2013.768712 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Alexandre Popoff [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 18 Nov 2011 18:36:20 UTC (84 KB) [v2] Mon, 21 Nov 2011 20:15:00 UTC (84 KB) [v3] Sat, 21 Apr 2012 10:08:38 UTC (100 KB) [v4] Sun, 12 Aug 2012 13:37:51 UTC (101 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Building Generalized Neo-Riemannian Groups of Musical Transformations as Extensions, by Alexandre Popoff View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: math.GR < prev | next > new | recent | 2011-11 Change to browse by: math References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
