<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signal Processing on Cell Complexes

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2110.05614v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:39.427748+00:00

## Notes

[2110.05614v2] Signal Processing on Cell Complexes Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2110.05614v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2110.05614v2 (cs) [Submitted on 11 Oct 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 20 Feb 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Signal Processing on Cell Complexes Authors: T. Mitchell Roddenberry , Michael T. Schaub , Mustafa Hajij View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing on Cell Complexes, by T. Mitchell Roddenberry and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: The processing of signals supported on non-Euclidean domains has attracted large interest recently. Thus far, such non-Euclidean domains have been abstracted primarily as graphs with signals supported on the nodes, though the processing of signals on more general structures such as simplicial complexes has also been considered. In this paper, we give an introduction to signal processing on (abstract) regular cell complexes, which provide a unifying framework encompassing graphs, simplicial complexes, cubical complexes and various meshes as special cases. We discuss how appropriate Hodge Laplacians for these cell complexes can be derived. These Hodge Laplacians enable the construction of convolutional filters, which can be employed in linear filtering and non-linear filtering via neural networks defined on cell complexes. Comments: 5 pages, 3 figures Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Signal Processing (eess.SP); Algebraic Topology (math.AT); Geometric Topology (math.GT) Cite as: arXiv:2110.05614 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2110.05614v2 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2110.05614 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: ICASSP 2022 - 2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/ICASSP43922.2022.9747233 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Michael Schaub [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 11 Oct 2021 21:11:59 UTC (4,453 KB) [v2] Sun, 20 Feb 2022 12:27:11 UTC (933 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing on Cell Complexes, by T. Mitchell Roddenberry and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.SI eess eess.SP math math.AT math.GT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 1 blog link ( what is this? ) DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Michael T. Schaub Mustafa Hajij export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
