<!-- source_type: articles -->
# EDMSound: Spectrogram Based Diffusion Models for Efficient and High-Quality Audio Synthesis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08667v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:11.503096+00:00

## Notes

[2311.08667v2] EDMSound: Spectrogram Based Diffusion Models for Efficient and High-Quality Audio Synthesis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2311.08667v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2311.08667v2 (cs) [Submitted on 15 Nov 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 18 Nov 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: EDMSound: Spectrogram Based Diffusion Models for Efficient and High-Quality Audio Synthesis Authors: Ge Zhu , Yutong Wen , Marc-André Carbonneau , Zhiyao Duan View a PDF of the paper titled EDMSound: Spectrogram Based Diffusion Models for Efficient and High-Quality Audio Synthesis, by Ge Zhu and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Audio diffusion models can synthesize a wide variety of sounds. Existing models often operate on the latent domain with cascaded phase recovery modules to reconstruct waveform. This poses challenges when generating high-fidelity audio. In this paper, we propose EDMSound, a diffusion-based generative model in spectrogram domain under the framework of elucidated diffusion models (EDM). Combining with efficient deterministic sampler, we achieved similar Fréchet audio distance (FAD) score as top-ranked baseline with only 10 steps and reached state-of-the-art performance with 50 steps on the DCASE2023 foley sound generation benchmark. We also revealed a potential concern regarding diffusion based audio generation models that they tend to generate samples with high perceptual similarity to the data from training data. Project page: this https URL Comments: Accepted at NeurIPS Workshop: Machine Learning for Audio (Camera Ready) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2311.08667 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2311.08667v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.08667 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ge Zhu [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 03:27:35 UTC (143 KB) [v2] Sat, 18 Nov 2023 15:16:16 UTC (144 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled EDMSound: Spectrogram Based Diffusion Models for Efficient and High-Quality Audio Synthesis, by Ge Zhu and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-11 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
