<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Resampling and requantization of band-limited Gaussian stochastic signals with flat power spectrum

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.1945v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:45.503056+00:00

## Notes

[0803.1945v3] Resampling and requantization of band-limited Gaussian stochastic signals with flat power spectrum Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:0803.1945v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:0803.1945v3 (cs) [Submitted on 13 Mar 2008 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Aug 2009 (this version, v3)] Title: Resampling and requantization of band-limited Gaussian stochastic signals with flat power spectrum Authors: Marco Lanucara , Riccardo Borghi View a PDF of the paper titled Resampling and requantization of band-limited Gaussian stochastic signals with flat power spectrum, by Marco Lanucara and Riccardo Borghi View PDF Abstract: A theoretical analysis, aimed at characterizing the degradation induced by the resampling and requantization processes applied to band-limited Gaussian signals with flat power spectrum, available through their digitized samples, is presented. The analysis provides an efficient algorithm for computing the complete {joint} bivariate discrete probability distribution associated to the true quantized version of the Gaussian signal and to the quantity estimated after resampling and requantization of the input digitized sequence. The use of Fourier transform techniques allows deriving {approximate} analytical expressions for the quantities of interest, as well as implementing their efficient computation. Numerical experiments are found to be in good agreement with the theoretical results, and confirm the validity of the whole approach. Comments: Submitted to Digital Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:0803.1945 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:0803.1945v3 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.0803.1945 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Riccardo Borghi [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 13 Mar 2008 10:57:08 UTC (333 KB) [v2] Fri, 4 Jul 2008 12:13:18 UTC (404 KB) [v3] Wed, 19 Aug 2009 13:20:07 UTC (256 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Resampling and requantization of band-limited Gaussian stochastic signals with flat power spectrum, by Marco Lanucara and Riccardo Borghi View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2008-03 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Marco Lanucara Riccardo Borghi export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
