<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Automated Audio Captioning using Audio Event Clues

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2204.08567v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:37.985372+00:00

## Notes

[2204.08567v1] Automated Audio Captioning using Audio Event Clues Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2204.08567v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2204.08567v1 (cs) [Submitted on 18 Apr 2022] Title: Automated Audio Captioning using Audio Event Clues Authors: Ayşegül Özkaya Eren , Mustafa Sert View a PDF of the paper titled Automated Audio Captioning using Audio Event Clues, by Ay\c{s}eg\"ul \"Ozkaya Eren and Mustafa Sert View PDF Abstract: Audio captioning is an important research area that aims to generate meaningful descriptions for audio clips. Most of the existing research extracts acoustic features of audio clips as input to encoder-decoder and transformer architectures to produce the captions in a sequence-to-sequence manner. Due to data insufficiency and the architecture's inadequate learning capacity, additional information is needed to generate natural language sentences, as well as acoustic features. To address these problems, an encoder-decoder architecture is proposed that learns from both acoustic features and extracted audio event labels as inputs. The proposed model is based on pre-trained acoustic features and audio event detection. Various experiments used different acoustic features, word embedding models, audio event label extraction methods, and implementation configurations to show which combinations have better performance on the audio captioning task. Results of the extensive experiments on multiple datasets show that using audio event labels with the acoustic features improves the recognition performance and the proposed method either outperforms or achieves competitive results with the state-of-the-art models. Comments: submitted to IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2204.08567 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2204.08567v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2204.08567 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ayşegül Özkaya Eren [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 18 Apr 2022 21:30:42 UTC (2,292 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Automated Audio Captioning using Audio Event Clues, by Ay\c{s}eg\"ul \"Ozkaya Eren and Mustafa Sert View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-04 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
