<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Automated Audio Captioning: An Overview of Recent Progress and New Challenges

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2205.05949v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:42.742218+00:00

## Notes

[2205.05949v2] Automated Audio Captioning: An Overview of Recent Progress and New Challenges Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2205.05949v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2205.05949v2 (eess) [Submitted on 12 May 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 27 Sep 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Automated Audio Captioning: An Overview of Recent Progress and New Challenges Authors: Xinhao Mei , Xubo Liu , Mark D. Plumbley , Wenwu Wang View a PDF of the paper titled Automated Audio Captioning: An Overview of Recent Progress and New Challenges, by Xinhao Mei and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Automated audio captioning is a cross-modal translation task that aims to generate natural language descriptions for given audio clips. This task has received increasing attention with the release of freely available datasets in recent years. The problem has been addressed predominantly with deep learning techniques. Numerous approaches have been proposed, such as investigating different neural network architectures, exploiting auxiliary information such as keywords or sentence information to guide caption generation, and employing different training strategies, which have greatly facilitated the development of this field. In this paper, we present a comprehensive review of the published contributions in automated audio captioning, from a variety of existing approaches to evaluation metrics and datasets. We also discuss open challenges and envisage possible future research directions. Comments: Accepted by EURASIP Journal on Audio Speech and Music Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2205.05949 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2205.05949v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2205.05949 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1186/s13636-022-00259-2 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Xinhao Mei [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 12 May 2022 08:36:35 UTC (211 KB) [v2] Tue, 27 Sep 2022 01:24:25 UTC (218 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Automated Audio Captioning: An Overview of Recent Progress and New Challenges, by Xinhao Mei and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.MM cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
