<!-- source_type: articles -->
# AudioSlots: A slot-centric generative model for audio separation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05591v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:35.301005+00:00

## Notes

[2305.05591v1] AudioSlots: A slot-centric generative model for audio separation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2305.05591v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2305.05591v1 (cs) [Submitted on 9 May 2023] Title: AudioSlots: A slot-centric generative model for audio separation Authors: Pradyumna Reddy , Scott Wisdom , Klaus Greff , John R. Hershey , Thomas Kipf View a PDF of the paper titled AudioSlots: A slot-centric generative model for audio separation, by Pradyumna Reddy and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: In a range of recent works, object-centric architectures have been shown to be suitable for unsupervised scene decomposition in the vision domain. Inspired by these methods we present AudioSlots, a slot-centric generative model for blind source separation in the audio domain. AudioSlots is built using permutation-equivariant encoder and decoder networks. The encoder network based on the Transformer architecture learns to map a mixed audio spectrogram to an unordered set of independent source embeddings. The spatial broadcast decoder network learns to generate the source spectrograms from the source embeddings. We train the model in an end-to-end manner using a permutation invariant loss function. Our results on Libri2Mix speech separation constitute a proof of concept that this approach shows promise. We discuss the results and limitations of our approach in detail, and further outline potential ways to overcome the limitations and directions for future work. Comments: Accepted at the Self-supervision in Audio, Speech and Beyond (SASB) Workshop at ICASSP 2023 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2305.05591 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2305.05591v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.05591 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Pradyumna Reddy [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 9 May 2023 16:28:07 UTC (21,509 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled AudioSlots: A slot-centric generative model for audio separation, by Pradyumna Reddy and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
