<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Large-Scale Cover Song Detection in Digital Music Libraries Using Metadata, Lyrics and Audio Features

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.10351v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:38.686122+00:00

## Notes

[1808.10351v1] Large-Scale Cover Song Detection in Digital Music Libraries Using Metadata, Lyrics and Audio Features Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1808.10351v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Retrieval arXiv:1808.10351v1 (cs) [Submitted on 30 Aug 2018] Title: Large-Scale Cover Song Detection in Digital Music Libraries Using Metadata, Lyrics and Audio Features Authors: Albin Andrew Correya , Romain Hennequin , Mickaël Arcos View a PDF of the paper titled Large-Scale Cover Song Detection in Digital Music Libraries Using Metadata, Lyrics and Audio Features, by Albin Andrew Correya and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Cover song detection is a very relevant task in Music Information Retrieval (MIR) studies and has been mainly addressed using audio-based systems. Despite its potential impact in industrial contexts, low performances and lack of scalability have prevented such systems from being adopted in practice for large applications. In this work, we investigate whether textual music information (such as metadata and lyrics) can be used along with audio for large-scale cover identification problem in a wide digital music library. We benchmark this problem using standard text and state of the art audio similarity measures. Our studies shows that these methods can significantly increase the accuracy and scalability of cover detection systems on Million Song Dataset (MSD) and Second Hand Song (SHS) datasets. By only leveraging standard tf-idf based text similarity measures on song titles and lyrics, we achieved 35.5% of absolute increase in mean average precision compared to the current scalable audio content-based state of the art methods on MSD. These experimental results suggests that new methodologies can be encouraged among researchers to leverage and identify more sophisticated NLP-based techniques to improve current cover song identification systems in digital music libraries with metadata. Comments: Music Information Retrieval, Cover Song Identification, Million Song Dataset, Natural Language Processing Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR) ; Multimedia (cs.MM) Cite as: arXiv:1808.10351 [cs.IR] (or arXiv:1808.10351v1 [cs.IR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1808.10351 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Albin Correya [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 30 Aug 2018 15:26:49 UTC (441 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Large-Scale Cover Song Detection in Digital Music Libraries Using Metadata, Lyrics and Audio Features, by Albin Andrew Correya and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IR < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Albin Andrew Correya Romain Hennequin Mickaël Arcos export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
