<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio Watermarking with Error Correction

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1209v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:32.987655+00:00

## Notes

[1110.1209v1] Audio Watermarking with Error Correction Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1110.1209v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Cryptography and Security arXiv:1110.1209v1 (cs) [Submitted on 6 Oct 2011] Title: Audio Watermarking with Error Correction Authors: Aman Chadha , Sandeep Gangundi , Rishabh Goel , Hiren Dave , M. Mani Roja View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Watermarking with Error Correction, by Aman Chadha and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: In recent times, communication through the internet has tremendously facilitated the distribution of multimedia data. Although this is indubitably a boon, one of its repercussions is that it has also given impetus to the notorious issue of online music piracy. Unethical attempts can also be made to deliberately alter such copyrighted data and thus, misuse it. Copyright violation by means of unauthorized distribution, as well as unauthorized tampering of copyrighted audio data is an important technological and research issue. Audio watermarking has been proposed as a solution to tackle this issue. The main purpose of audio watermarking is to protect against possible threats to the audio data and in case of copyright violation or unauthorized tampering, authenticity of such data can be disputed by virtue of audio watermarking. Comments: watermarking; audio watermarking; data hiding; data confidentiality Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR) ; Information Theory (cs.IT); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1110.1209 [cs.CR] (or arXiv:1110.1209v1 [cs.CR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1110.1209 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications ( IJACSA ) , Vol 2 Issue 9, 2011, 113 - 118 Submission history From: Aman Chadha Mr. [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 6 Oct 2011 10:21:04 UTC (594 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Watermarking with Error Correction, by Aman Chadha and 4 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.CR < prev | next > new | recent | 2011-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT cs.MM eess eess.AS math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Aman Chadha Sandeep Gangundi Rishabh Goel Hiren Dave M. Mani Roja export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
