<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Regularized autoregressive modeling and its application to audio signal reconstruction

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17790v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:08.897069+00:00

## Notes

[2410.17790v3] Regularized autoregressive modeling and its application to audio signal reconstruction Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2410.17790v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2410.17790v3 (eess) [Submitted on 23 Oct 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 30 Dec 2025 (this version, v3)] Title: Regularized autoregressive modeling and its application to audio signal reconstruction Authors: Ondřej Mokrý , Pavel Rajmic View a PDF of the paper titled Regularized autoregressive modeling and its application to audio signal reconstruction, by Ond\v{r}ej Mokr\'y and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Autoregressive (AR) modeling is invaluable in signal processing, in particular in speech and audio fields. Attempts in the literature can be found that regularize or constrain either the time-domain signal values or the AR coefficients, which is done for various reasons, including the incorporation of prior information or numerical stabilization. Although these attempts are appealing, an encompassing and generic modeling framework is still missing. We propose such a framework and the related optimization problem and algorithm. We discuss the computational demands of the algorithm and explore the effects of various improvements on its convergence speed. In the experimental part, we demonstrate the usefulness of our approach on the audio declipping and dequantization problems. We compare its performance against state-of-the-art methods and demonstrate the competitiveness of the proposed method in declipping musical signals, and its superiority in declipping speech. The evaluation includes a heuristic algorithm of generalized linear prediction (GLP), a strong competitor which has only been presented as a patent and is new in the scientific community. Comments: submitted to IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2410.17790 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2410.17790v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.17790 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLPRO.2026.3661299 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Ondřej Mokrý [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 23 Oct 2024 11:45:31 UTC (3,212 KB) [v2] Wed, 27 Aug 2025 10:07:39 UTC (763 KB) [v3] Tue, 30 Dec 2025 13:31:58 UTC (780 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Regularized autoregressive modeling and its application to audio signal reconstruction, by Ond\v{r}ej Mokr\'y and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
