<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Identification of potential Music Information Retrieval technologies for computer-aided jingju singing training

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1711.07551v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:33.215982+00:00

## Notes

[1711.07551v1] Identification of potential Music Information Retrieval technologies for computer-aided jingju singing training Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1711.07551v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Retrieval arXiv:1711.07551v1 (cs) [Submitted on 2 Nov 2017] Title: Identification of potential Music Information Retrieval technologies for computer-aided jingju singing training Authors: Rong Gong , Xavier Serra View a PDF of the paper titled Identification of potential Music Information Retrieval technologies for computer-aided jingju singing training, by Rong Gong and Xavier Serra View PDF Abstract: Music Information Retrieval (MIR) technologies have been proven useful in assisting western classical singing training. Jingju (also known as Beijing or Peking opera) singing is different from western singing in terms of most of the perceptual dimensions, and the trainees are taught by using mouth/heart method. In this paper, we first present the training method used in the professional jingju training classroom scenario and show the potential benefits of introducing the MIR technologies into the training process. The main part of this paper dedicates to identify the potential MIR technologies for jingju singing training. To this intent, we answer the question: how the jingju singing tutors and trainees value the importance of each jingju musical dimension-intonation, rhythm, loudness, tone quality and pronunciation? This is done by (i) classifying the classroom singing practices, tutor's verbal feedbacks into these 5 dimensions, (ii) surveying the trainees. Then, with the help of the music signal analysis, a finer inspection on the classroom practice recording examples reveals the detailed elements in the training process. Finally, based on the above analysis, several potential MIR technologies are identified and would be useful for the jingju singing training. Comments: Chinese traditional music technology session - China conference on sound and music technology 2017, Suzhou, China Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1711.07551 [cs.IR] (or arXiv:1711.07551v1 [cs.IR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1711.07551 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Rong Gong [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 2 Nov 2017 04:37:58 UTC (937 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Identification of potential Music Information Retrieval technologies for computer-aided jingju singing training, by Rong Gong and Xavier Serra View PDF view license Additional Features Audio Summary Current browse context: cs.IR < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Rong Gong Xavier Serra export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
