<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Analyzing Byte-Pair Encoding on Monophonic and Polyphonic Symbolic Music: A Focus on Musical Phrase Segmentation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01448v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:12.917953+00:00

## Notes

[2410.01448v1] Analyzing Byte-Pair Encoding on Monophonic and Polyphonic Symbolic Music: A Focus on Musical Phrase Segmentation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2410.01448v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Retrieval arXiv:2410.01448v1 (cs) [Submitted on 2 Oct 2024] Title: Analyzing Byte-Pair Encoding on Monophonic and Polyphonic Symbolic Music: A Focus on Musical Phrase Segmentation Authors: Dinh-Viet-Toan Le , Louis Bigo , Mikaela Keller View a PDF of the paper titled Analyzing Byte-Pair Encoding on Monophonic and Polyphonic Symbolic Music: A Focus on Musical Phrase Segmentation, by Dinh-Viet-Toan Le and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Byte-Pair Encoding (BPE) is an algorithm commonly used in Natural Language Processing to build a vocabulary of subwords, which has been recently applied to symbolic music. Given that symbolic music can differ significantly from text, particularly with polyphony, we investigate how BPE behaves with different types of musical content. This study provides a qualitative analysis of BPE's behavior across various instrumentations and evaluates its impact on a musical phrase segmentation task for both monophonic and polyphonic music. Our findings show that the BPE training process is highly dependent on the instrumentation and that BPE "supertokens" succeed in capturing abstract musical content. In a musical phrase segmentation task, BPE notably improves performance in a polyphonic setting, but enhances performance in monophonic tunes only within a specific range of BPE merges. Comments: Accepted to 3rd Workshop on NLP for Music and Audio (NLP4MusA, co-located with ISMIR 2024) Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2410.01448 [cs.IR] (or arXiv:2410.01448v1 [cs.IR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.01448 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Dinh-Viet-Toan Le [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 2 Oct 2024 11:59:58 UTC (2,185 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Analyzing Byte-Pair Encoding on Monophonic and Polyphonic Symbolic Music: A Focus on Musical Phrase Segmentation, by Dinh-Viet-Toan Le and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Additional Features Audio Summary Current browse context: cs.IR < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
