<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Towards Unconstrained Audio Splicing Detection and Localization with Neural Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.14682v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:50.065710+00:00

## Notes

[2207.14682v4] Towards Unconstrained Audio Splicing Detection and Localization with Neural Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2207.14682v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2207.14682v4 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Jul 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 3 May 2024 (this version, v4)] Title: Towards Unconstrained Audio Splicing Detection and Localization with Neural Networks Authors: Denise Moussa , Germans Hirsch , Christian Riess View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Unconstrained Audio Splicing Detection and Localization with Neural Networks, by Denise Moussa and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Freely available and easy-to-use audio editing tools make it straightforward to perform audio splicing. Convincing forgeries can be created by combining various speech samples from the same person. Detection of such splices is important both in the public sector when considering misinformation, and in a legal context to verify the integrity of evidence. Unfortunately, most existing detection algorithms for audio splicing use handcrafted features and make specific assumptions. However, criminal investigators are often faced with audio samples from unconstrained sources with unknown characteristics, which raises the need for more generally applicable methods. With this work, we aim to take a first step towards unconstrained audio splicing detection to address this need. We simulate various attack scenarios in the form of post-processing operations that may disguise splicing. We propose a Transformer sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) network for splicing detection and localization. Our extensive evaluation shows that the proposed method outperforms existing dedicated approaches for splicing detection [3, 10] as well as the general-purpose networks EfficientNet [28] and RegNet [25]. Comments: Published at MMFORWILD 2022, ICPR Workshops - Code: this https URL . International Conference on Pattern Recognition. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland, 2022 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2207.14682 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2207.14682v4 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2207.14682 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-37742-6_22 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Denise Moussa [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 29 Jul 2022 13:57:16 UTC (7,400 KB) [v2] Sat, 20 Aug 2022 16:34:20 UTC (7,400 KB) [v3] Fri, 31 Mar 2023 09:56:52 UTC (6,312 KB) [v4] Fri, 3 May 2024 14:52:21 UTC (4,364 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Unconstrained Audio Splicing Detection and Localization with Neural Networks, by Denise Moussa and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.CV eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
