<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Stable Audio Open

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.14358v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:23.670999+00:00

## Notes

[2407.14358v2] Stable Audio Open Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2407.14358v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2407.14358v2 (cs) [Submitted on 19 Jul 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 31 Jul 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: Stable Audio Open Authors: Zach Evans , Julian D. Parker , CJ Carr , Zack Zukowski , Josiah Taylor , Jordi Pons View a PDF of the paper titled Stable Audio Open, by Zach Evans and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Open generative models are vitally important for the community, allowing for fine-tunes and serving as baselines when presenting new models. However, most current text-to-audio models are private and not accessible for artists and researchers to build upon. Here we describe the architecture and training process of a new open-weights text-to-audio model trained with Creative Commons data. Our evaluation shows that the model's performance is competitive with the state-of-the-art across various metrics. Notably, the reported FDopenl3 results (measuring the realism of the generations) showcase its potential for high-quality stereo sound synthesis at 44.1kHz. Comments: Demo: this https URL Weights: this https URL Code: this https URL . arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2404.10301 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2407.14358 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2407.14358v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.14358 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jordi Pons [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 19 Jul 2024 14:40:23 UTC (85 KB) [v2] Wed, 31 Jul 2024 16:22:42 UTC (144 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Stable Audio Open, by Zach Evans and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
