<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Toward Millimeter Wave Joint Radar-Communications: A Signal Processing Perspective

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.00690v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:25.999443+00:00

## Notes

[1905.00690v2] Toward Millimeter Wave Joint Radar-Communications: A Signal Processing Perspective Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1905.00690v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1905.00690v2 (eess) [Submitted on 2 May 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 18 May 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: Toward Millimeter Wave Joint Radar-Communications: A Signal Processing Perspective Authors: Kumar Vijay Mishra , Bhavani Shankar M. R. , Visa Koivunen , Björn Ottersten , Sergiy A. Vorobyov View a PDF of the paper titled Toward Millimeter Wave Joint Radar-Communications: A Signal Processing Perspective, by Kumar Vijay Mishra and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Synergistic design of communications and radar systems with common spectral and hardware resources is heralding a new era of efficiently utilizing a limited radio-frequency spectrum. Such a joint radar-communications (JRC) model has advantages of low-cost, compact size, less power consumption, spectrum sharing, improved performance, and safety due to enhanced information sharing. Today, millimeter-wave (mm-wave) communications have emerged as the preferred technology for short distance wireless links because they provide transmission bandwidth that is several gigahertz wide. This band is also promising for short-range radar applications, which benefit from the high-range resolution arising from large transmit signal bandwidths. Signal processing techniques are critical in implementation of mmWave JRC systems. Major challenges are joint waveform design and performance criteria that would optimally trade-off between communications and radar functionalities. Novel multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) signal processing techniques are required because mmWave JRC systems employ large antenna arrays. There are opportunities to exploit recent advances in cognition, compressed sensing, and machine learning to reduce required resources and dynamically allocate them with low overheads. This article provides a signal processing perspective of mmWave JRC systems with an emphasis on waveform design. Comments: 24 pages, 6 figures, IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1905.00690 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1905.00690v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1905.00690 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 36, no. 5, pp. 100-114, Sept. 2019 Submission history From: Kumar Vijay Mishra [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 2 May 2019 12:14:58 UTC (6,260 KB) [v2] Sat, 18 May 2019 21:12:49 UTC (6,260 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Toward Millimeter Wave Joint Radar-Communications: A Signal Processing Perspective, by Kumar Vijay Mishra and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-05 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
