<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Discrete Signal Processing on Meet/Join Lattices

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2012.04358v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:51.034412+00:00

## Notes

[2012.04358v2] Discrete Signal Processing on Meet/Join Lattices Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2012.04358v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:2012.04358v2 (cs) [Submitted on 8 Dec 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 6 Jul 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Discrete Signal Processing on Meet/Join Lattices Authors: Markus Püschel , Bastian Seifert , Chris Wendler View a PDF of the paper titled Discrete Signal Processing on Meet/Join Lattices, by Markus P\"uschel and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: A lattice is a partially ordered set supporting a meet (or join) operation that returns the largest lower bound (smallest upper bound) of two elements. Just like graphs, lattices are a fundamental structure that occurs across domains including social data analysis, natural language processing, computational chemistry and biology, and database theory. In this paper we introduce discrete-lattice signal processing (DLSP), an SP framework for data, or signals, indexed by such lattices. We use the meet (or join) to define a shift operation and derive associated notions of filtering, Fourier basis and transform, and frequency response. We show that the spectrum of a lattice signal inherits the lattice structure of the signal domain and derive a sampling theorem. Finally, we show two prototypical applications: spectral analysis of formal concept lattices in social science and sampling and Wiener filtering of multiset lattices in combinatorial auctions. Formal concept lattices are a compressed representation of relations between objects and attributes. Since relations are equivalent to bipartite graphs and hypergraphs, DLSP offers a form of Fourier analysis for these structures. Comments: 13 pages Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) ; Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2012.04358 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:2012.04358v2 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2012.04358 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, Vol. 69, pp. 3571-3584, 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2021.3081036 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Bastian Seifert [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 8 Dec 2020 11:09:29 UTC (2,630 KB) [v2] Tue, 6 Jul 2021 12:51:57 UTC (9,162 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Discrete Signal Processing on Meet/Join Lattices, by Markus P\"uschel and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.SI eess eess.SP math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Markus Püschel Bastian Seifert export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
