<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Deep Learning for Audio Signal Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.00078v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:48.329342+00:00

## Notes

[1905.00078v2] Deep Learning for Audio Signal Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1905.00078v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1905.00078v2 (cs) [Submitted on 30 Apr 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 25 May 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: Deep Learning for Audio Signal Processing Authors: Hendrik Purwins (1), Bo Li (2), Tuomas Virtanen (3), Jan Schlüter (4 and 5), Shuo-yiin Chang (2), Tara Sainath (2) ((1) Aalborg University Copenhagen, (2) Google, (3) Tampere University, (4) Université de Toulon, (5) Austrian Research Institute for Artificial Intelligence) View a PDF of the paper titled Deep Learning for Audio Signal Processing, by Hendrik Purwins (1) and 9 other authors View PDF Abstract: Given the recent surge in developments of deep learning, this article provides a review of the state-of-the-art deep learning techniques for audio signal processing. Speech, music, and environmental sound processing are considered side-by-side, in order to point out similarities and differences between the domains, highlighting general methods, problems, key references, and potential for cross-fertilization between areas. The dominant feature representations (in particular, log-mel spectra and raw waveform) and deep learning models are reviewed, including convolutional neural networks, variants of the long short-term memory architecture, as well as more audio-specific neural network models. Subsequently, prominent deep learning application areas are covered, i.e. audio recognition (automatic speech recognition, music information retrieval, environmental sound detection, localization and tracking) and synthesis and transformation (source separation, audio enhancement, generative models for speech, sound, and music synthesis). Finally, key issues and future questions regarding deep learning applied to audio signal processing are identified. Comments: 15 pages, 2 pdf figures Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) ACM classes: I.2.6; H.5.1 Cite as: arXiv:1905.00078 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1905.00078v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1905.00078 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Journal of Selected Topics of Signal Processing 14, No. 8 (2019) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/JSTSP.2019.2908700 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Hendrik Purwins [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 30 Apr 2019 19:57:33 UTC (157 KB) [v2] Sat, 25 May 2019 09:02:38 UTC (157 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Deep Learning for Audio Signal Processing, by Hendrik Purwins (1) and 9 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-05 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 1 blog link ( what is this? ) DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Hendrik Purwins Bo Li Tuomas Virtanen Jan Schlüter Shuo-Yiin Chang … export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
