<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Source Mixing and Separation Robust Audio Steganography

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2110.05054v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:19.571204+00:00

## Notes

[2110.05054v2] Source Mixing and Separation Robust Audio Steganography Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2110.05054v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2110.05054v2 (cs) [Submitted on 11 Oct 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 18 Feb 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Source Mixing and Separation Robust Audio Steganography Authors: Naoya Takahashi , Mayank Kumar Singh , Yuki Mitsufuji View a PDF of the paper titled Source Mixing and Separation Robust Audio Steganography, by Naoya Takahashi and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Audio steganography aims at concealing secret information in carrier audio with imperceptible modification on the carrier. Although previous works addressed the robustness of concealed message recovery against distortions introduced during transmission, they do not address the robustness against aggressive editing such as mixing of other audio sources and source separation. In this work, we propose for the first time a steganography method that can embed information into individual sound sources in a mixture such as instrumental tracks in music. To this end, we propose a time-domain model and curriculum learning essential to learn to decode the concealed message from the separated sources. Experimental results show that the proposed method successfully conceals the information in an imperceptible perturbation and that the information can be correctly recovered even after mixing of other sources and separation by a source separation algorithm. Furthermore, we show that the proposed method can be applied to multiple sources simultaneously without interfering with the decoder for other sources even after the sources are mixed and separated. Comments: Accepted to ICASSP 2022 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2110.05054 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2110.05054v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2110.05054 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Naoya Takahashi [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 11 Oct 2021 07:47:41 UTC (754 KB) [v2] Fri, 18 Feb 2022 01:26:27 UTC (755 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Source Mixing and Separation Robust Audio Steganography, by Naoya Takahashi and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.CR eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Naoya Takahashi Yuki Mitsufuji export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
