<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Toward Mixed Analog-Digital Quantum Signal Processing: Quantum AD/DA Conversion and the Fourier Transform

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.14729v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:37.284005+00:00

## Notes

[2408.14729v2] Toward Mixed Analog-Digital Quantum Signal Processing: Quantum AD/DA Conversion and the Fourier Transform Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2408.14729v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2408.14729v2 (eess) [Submitted on 27 Aug 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 16 May 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Toward Mixed Analog-Digital Quantum Signal Processing: Quantum AD/DA Conversion and the Fourier Transform Authors: Yuan Liu , John M. Martyn , Jasmine Sinanan-Singh , Kevin C. Smith , Steven M. Girvin , Isaac L. Chuang View a PDF of the paper titled Toward Mixed Analog-Digital Quantum Signal Processing: Quantum AD/DA Conversion and the Fourier Transform, by Yuan Liu and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Signal processing stands as a pillar of classical computation and modern information technology, applicable to both analog and digital signals. Recently, advancements in quantum information science have suggested that quantum signal processing (QSP) can enable more powerful signal processing capabilities. However, the developments in QSP have primarily leveraged \emph{digital} quantum resources, such as discrete-variable (DV) systems like qubits, rather than \emph{analog} quantum resources, such as continuous-variable (CV) systems like quantum oscillators. Consequently, there remains a gap in understanding how signal processing can be performed on hybrid CV-DV quantum computers. Here we address this gap by developing a new paradigm of mixed analog-digital QSP. We demonstrate the utility of this paradigm by showcasing how it naturally enables analog-digital conversion of quantum signals -- specifically, the transfer of states between DV and CV quantum systems. We then show that such quantum analog-digital conversion enables new implementations of quantum algorithms on CV-DV hardware. This is exemplified by realizing the quantum Fourier transform of a state encoded on qubits via the free-evolution of a quantum oscillator, albeit with a runtime exponential in the number of qubits due to information theoretic arguments. Collectively, this work marks a significant step forward in hybrid CV-DV quantum computation, providing a foundation for scalable analog-digital signal processing on quantum processors. Comments: 16 pages, 5 figures Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Quantum Physics (quant-ph) Cite as: arXiv:2408.14729 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2408.14729v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2408.14729 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 73, 2025 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2025.3599462 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Yuan Liu [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 27 Aug 2024 01:53:57 UTC (23,937 KB) [v2] Fri, 16 May 2025 20:34:23 UTC (15,103 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Toward Mixed Analog-Digital Quantum Signal Processing: Quantum AD/DA Conversion and the Fourier Transform, by Yuan Liu and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Ancillary-file links: Ancillary files ( details ) : SupplementalMaterial.pdf Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-08 Change to browse by: eess quant-ph References & Citations INSPIRE HEP NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
