<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Primer on Zeroth-Order Optimization in Signal Processing and Machine Learning

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2006.06224v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:54.196869+00:00

## Notes

[2006.06224v2] A Primer on Zeroth-Order Optimization in Signal Processing and Machine Learning Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2006.06224v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2006.06224v2 (cs) [Submitted on 11 Jun 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 21 Jun 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: A Primer on Zeroth-Order Optimization in Signal Processing and Machine Learning Authors: Sijia Liu , Pin-Yu Chen , Bhavya Kailkhura , Gaoyuan Zhang , Alfred Hero , Pramod K. Varshney View a PDF of the paper titled A Primer on Zeroth-Order Optimization in Signal Processing and Machine Learning, by Sijia Liu and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Zeroth-order (ZO) optimization is a subset of gradient-free optimization that emerges in many signal processing and machine learning applications. It is used for solving optimization problems similarly to gradient-based methods. However, it does not require the gradient, using only function evaluations. Specifically, ZO optimization iteratively performs three major steps: gradient estimation, descent direction computation, and solution update. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive review of ZO optimization, with an emphasis on showing the underlying intuition, optimization principles and recent advances in convergence analysis. Moreover, we demonstrate promising applications of ZO optimization, such as evaluating robustness and generating explanations from black-box deep learning models, and efficient online sensor management. Comments: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Signal Processing (eess.SP); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:2006.06224 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2006.06224v2 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2006.06224 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sijia Liu [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 11 Jun 2020 06:50:35 UTC (6,221 KB) [v2] Sun, 21 Jun 2020 06:40:13 UTC (4,797 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Primer on Zeroth-Order Optimization in Signal Processing and Machine Learning, by Sijia Liu and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-06 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.SP stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Sijia Liu Pin-Yu Chen Bhavya Kailkhura Gaoyuan Zhang Alfred O. Hero III … export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
