<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Iterative Sparse Asymptotic Minimum Variance Based Approaches for Array Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03070v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:00.026907+00:00

## Notes

[1802.03070v1] Iterative Sparse Asymptotic Minimum Variance Based Approaches for Array Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1802.03070v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1802.03070v1 (eess) [Submitted on 8 Feb 2018] Title: Iterative Sparse Asymptotic Minimum Variance Based Approaches for Array Processing Authors: Habti Abeida , Qilin Zhang , Jian Li , Nadjim Merabtine View a PDF of the paper titled Iterative Sparse Asymptotic Minimum Variance Based Approaches for Array Processing, by Habti Abeida and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper presents a series of user parameter-free iterative Sparse Asymptotic Minimum Variance (SAMV) approaches for array processing applications based on the asymptotically minimum variance (AMV) criterion. With the assumption of abundant snapshots in the direction-of-arrival (DOA) estimation problem, the signal powers and noise variance are jointly estimated by the proposed iterative AMV approach, which is later proved to coincide with the Maximum Likelihood (ML) estimator. We then propose a series of power-based iterative SAMV approaches, which are robust against insufficient snapshots, coherent sources and arbitrary array geometries. Moreover, to overcome the direction grid limitation on the estimation accuracy, the SAMV-Stochastic ML (SAMV-SML) approaches are derived by explicitly minimizing a closed form stochastic ML cost function with respect to one scalar parameter, eliminating the need of any additional grid refinement techniques. To assist the performance evaluation, approximate solutions to the SAMV approaches are also provided at high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and low SNR, respectively. Finally, numerical examples are generated to compare the performance of the proposed approaches with existing approaches. Comments: Abeida Habti, Qilin Zhang, Jian Li, and Nadjim Merabtine. "Iterative sparse asymptotic minimum variance based approaches for array processing." IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing 61, no. 4 (2013): 933-944 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1802.03070 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1802.03070v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1802.03070 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing 61, no. 4 (2013): 933-944 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2012.2231676 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Qilin Zhang [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 8 Feb 2018 23:03:53 UTC (1,557 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Iterative Sparse Asymptotic Minimum Variance Based Approaches for Array Processing, by Habti Abeida and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-02 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
