<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signal Processing on Directed Graphs

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2008.00586v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:31.170857+00:00

## Notes

[2008.00586v1] Signal Processing on Directed Graphs Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2008.00586v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2008.00586v1 (eess) [Submitted on 2 Aug 2020] Title: Signal Processing on Directed Graphs Authors: Antonio G. Marques , Santiago Segarra , Gonzalo Mateos View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing on Directed Graphs, by Antonio G. Marques and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper provides an overview of the current landscape of signal processing (SP) on directed graphs (digraphs). Directionality is inherent to many real-world (information, transportation, biological) networks and it should play an integral role in processing and learning from network data. We thus lay out a comprehensive review of recent advances in SP on digraphs, offering insights through comparisons with results available for undirected graphs, discussing emerging directions, establishing links with related areas in machine learning and causal inference in statistics, as well as illustrating their practical relevance to timely applications. To this end, we begin by surveying (orthonormal) signal representations and their graph frequency interpretations based on novel measures of signal variation for digraphs. We then move on to filtering, a central component in deriving a comprehensive theory of SP on digraphs. Indeed, through the lens of filter-based generative signal models, we explore a unified framework to study inverse problems (e.g., sampling and deconvolution on networks), statistical analysis of random signals, and topology inference of digraphs from nodal observations. Comments: To be published in the IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Special Issue on Graph Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2008.00586 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2008.00586v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2008.00586 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Gonzalo Mateos [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 2 Aug 2020 23:33:34 UTC (6,300 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing on Directed Graphs, by Antonio G. Marques and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-08 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
