<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Recovery Conditions of Sparse Signals Using Orthogonal Least Squares-Type Algorithms

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2201.04914v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:53.272925+00:00

## Notes

[2201.04914v2] Recovery Conditions of Sparse Signals Using Orthogonal Least Squares-Type Algorithms Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2201.04914v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2201.04914v2 (eess) [Submitted on 13 Jan 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 12 Oct 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Recovery Conditions of Sparse Signals Using Orthogonal Least Squares-Type Algorithms Authors: L. Lu , W. Xu , Y. Wang , Z. Tian View a PDF of the paper titled Recovery Conditions of Sparse Signals Using Orthogonal Least Squares-Type Algorithms, by L. Lu and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Orthogonal least squares (OLS)-type algorithms are efficient in reconstructing sparse signals, which include the well-known OLS, multiple OLS (MOLS) and block OLS (BOLS). In this paper, we first investigate the noiseless exact recovery conditions of these algorithms. Specifically, based on mutual incoherence property (MIP), we provide theoretical analysis of OLS and MOLS to ensure that the correct nonzero support can be selected during the iterative procedure. Nevertheless, theoretical analysis for BOLS utilizes the block-MIP to deal with the block sparsity. Furthermore, the noiseless MIP-based analyses are extended to the noisy scenario. Our results indicate that for K-sparse signals, when MIP or SNR satisfies certain conditions, OLS and MOLS obtain reliable reconstruction in at most K iterations, while BOLS succeeds in at most (K/d) iterations where d is the block length. It is shown that our derived theoretical results improve the existing ones, which are verified by simulation tests. Comments: 13 pages, 11 figures, published in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2201.04914 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2201.04914v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2201.04914 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 70, pp. 4727-4741, Sep. 2022 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2022.3208439 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Liyang Lu [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 13 Jan 2022 12:11:18 UTC (124 KB) [v2] Wed, 12 Oct 2022 07:04:37 UTC (124 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Recovery Conditions of Sparse Signals Using Orthogonal Least Squares-Type Algorithms, by L. Lu and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-01 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
