<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Frequency-Domain Stochastic Modeling of Stationary Bivariate or Complex-Valued Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1306.5993v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:33.199769+00:00

## Notes

[1306.5993v4] Frequency-Domain Stochastic Modeling of Stationary Bivariate or Complex-Valued Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > stat > arXiv:1306.5993v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Statistics > Methodology arXiv:1306.5993v4 (stat) [Submitted on 25 Jun 2013 ( v1 ), last revised 15 Mar 2017 (this version, v4)] Title: Frequency-Domain Stochastic Modeling of Stationary Bivariate or Complex-Valued Signals Authors: Adam M. Sykulski , Sofia C. Olhede , Jonathan M. Lilly , Jeffrey J. Early View a PDF of the paper titled Frequency-Domain Stochastic Modeling of Stationary Bivariate or Complex-Valued Signals, by Adam M. Sykulski and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: There are three equivalent ways of representing two jointly observed real-valued signals: as a bivariate vector signal, as a single complex-valued signal, or as two analytic signals known as the rotary components. Each representation has unique advantages depending on the system of interest and the application goals. In this paper we provide a joint framework for all three representations in the context of frequency-domain stochastic modeling. This framework allows us to extend many established statistical procedures for bivariate vector time series to complex-valued and rotary representations. These include procedures for parametrically modeling signal coherence, estimating model parameters using the Whittle likelihood, performing semi-parametric modeling, and choosing between classes of nested models using model choice. We also provide a new method of testing for impropriety in complex-valued signals, which tests for noncircular or anisotropic second-order statistical structure when the signal is represented in the complex plane. Finally, we demonstrate the usefulness of our methodology in capturing the anisotropic structure of signals observed from fluid dynamic simulations of turbulence. Comments: To appear in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Methodology (stat.ME) ; Applications (stat.AP); Computation (stat.CO); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:1306.5993 [stat.ME] (or arXiv:1306.5993v4 [stat.ME] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1306.5993 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 2017 Submission history From: Adam Sykulski Dr [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 25 Jun 2013 15:15:06 UTC (3,026 KB) [v2] Mon, 2 Mar 2015 06:59:25 UTC (1,328 KB) [v3] Sun, 22 May 2016 00:48:38 UTC (1,254 KB) [v4] Wed, 15 Mar 2017 13:04:31 UTC (2,750 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Frequency-Domain Stochastic Modeling of Stationary Bivariate or Complex-Valued Signals, by Adam M. Sykulski and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: stat.ME < prev | next > new | recent | 2013-06 Change to browse by: stat stat.AP stat.CO stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
