<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Object-Based Audio Rendering

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.07218v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:15.103434+00:00

## Notes

[1708.07218v1] Object-Based Audio Rendering Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1708.07218v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1708.07218v1 (cs) [Submitted on 23 Aug 2017] Title: Object-Based Audio Rendering Authors: Philip Jackson , Filippo Fazi , Frank Melchior , Trevor Cox , Adrian Hilton , Chris Pike , Jon Francombe , Andreas Franck , Philip Coleman , Dylan Menzies-Gow , James Woodcock , Yan Tang , Qingju Liu , Rick Hughes , Marcos Simon Galvez , Teo de Campos , Hansung Kim , Hanne Stenzel View a PDF of the paper titled Object-Based Audio Rendering, by Philip Jackson and 17 other authors View PDF Abstract: Apparatus and methods are disclosed for performing object-based audio rendering on a plurality of audio objects which define a sound scene, each audio object comprising at least one audio signal and associated metadata. The apparatus comprises: a plurality of renderers each capable of rendering one or more of the audio objects to output rendered audio data; and object adapting means for adapting one or more of the plurality of audio objects for a current reproduction scenario, the object adapting means being configured to send the adapted one or more audio objects to one or more of the plurality of renderers. Comments: This is a transcript of GB Patent Application No: GB1609316.3, filed in the UK by the University of Surrey on 23 May 2016. It describes an intelligent system for customising, personalising and perceptually monitoring the rendering of an object-based audio stream for an arbitrary connected system of loudspeakers to optimize the listening experience as the producer intended. 30 pages, 5 figures Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:1708.07218 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1708.07218v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1708.07218 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Philip Jackson [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 23 Aug 2017 23:43:09 UTC (276 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Object-Based Audio Rendering, by Philip Jackson and 17 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-08 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Philip J. B. Jackson Filippo Maria Fazi Frank Melchior Trevor J. Cox Adrian Hilton … export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
