<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Joint Multi-User Communication and Sensing Exploiting Both Signal and Environment Sparsity

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.02552v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:33.513021+00:00

## Notes

[2109.02552v1] Joint Multi-User Communication and Sensing Exploiting Both Signal and Environment Sparsity Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2109.02552v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2109.02552v1 (eess) [Submitted on 6 Sep 2021] Title: Joint Multi-User Communication and Sensing Exploiting Both Signal and Environment Sparsity Authors: Xin Tong , Zhaoyang Zhang , Jue Wang , Chongwen Huang , Merouane Debbah View a PDF of the paper titled Joint Multi-User Communication and Sensing Exploiting Both Signal and Environment Sparsity, by Xin Tong and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: As a potential technology feature for 6G wireless networks, the idea of sensing-communication integration requires the system not only to complete reliable multi-user communication but also to achieve accurate environment sensing. In this paper, we consider such a joint communication and sensing (JCAS) scenario, in which multiple users use the sparse code multiple access (SCMA) scheme to communicate with the wireless access point (AP). Part of the user signals are scattered by the environment object and reflected by an intelligent reflective surface (IRS) before they arrive at the AP. We exploit the sparsity of both the structured user signals and the unstructured environment and propose an iterative and incremental joint multi-user communication and environment sensing scheme, in which the two processes, i.e., multi-user information detection and environment object detection, interweave with each other thanks to their intrinsic mutual dependence. The proposed algorithm is sliding-window based and also graph based, which can keep on sensing the environment as long as there are illuminating user signals. The trade-off relationship between the key system parameters is analyzed, and the simulation result validates the convergence and effectiveness of the proposed algorithm. Comments: Paper accepted for publication on IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2109.02552 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2109.02552v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2109.02552 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 2022 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/JSTSP.2021.3111432 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Zhaoyang Zhang [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 6 Sep 2021 15:40:47 UTC (1,933 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Joint Multi-User Communication and Sensing Exploiting Both Signal and Environment Sparsity, by Xin Tong and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-09 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
