<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Bridge Modal Identification using Acceleration Measurements within Moving Vehicles

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.01797v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:50.093511+00:00

## Notes

[2001.01797v1] Bridge Modal Identification using Acceleration Measurements within Moving Vehicles Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2001.01797v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2001.01797v1 (eess) [Submitted on 6 Jan 2020] Title: Bridge Modal Identification using Acceleration Measurements within Moving Vehicles Authors: Soheil Sadeghi Eshkevari , Thomas J. Matarazzo , Shamim N. Pakzad View a PDF of the paper titled Bridge Modal Identification using Acceleration Measurements within Moving Vehicles, by Soheil Sadeghi Eshkevari and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Vehicles crossing bridge structures respond dynamically to the bridge's vibrations. An acceleration signal collected within a moving vehicle contains a trace of the bridge's structural response, but also includes other sources such as the vehicle suspension system and surface roughness-induced vibrations. This paper introduces two methods for the bridge system identification using data collected by a network of moving vehicles. The contributions of the vehicle suspension system are removed by deconvolving the vehicle response in frequency domain. The first approach utilizes the vehicle transfer function, and the second uses EEMD method. Next, roughness-induced vibrations are extracted using second-order blind identification (SOBI) method. After these two processes the resulting signal is equivalent to the readings of mobile sensors that scan the bridge's dynamic response. Structural modal identification using mobile sensor data has been recently introduced as STRIDEX algorithm. The processed mobile sensor data is analyzed using STRIDEX to identify the modal properties of the bridge. The performance of the methods is validated on numerical case studies of a long single-span bridge monitored via a network of moving vehicles. The analyses consider three road surface roughness patterns. Results show that the proposed algorithms are successful in extracting pure bridge vibrations, and produce accurate and comprehensive modal properties of the bridge. The study shows that the proposed transfer function method can efficiently deconvolve the linear dynamics of a moving vehicle. EEMD method is able to extract vehicle dynamic response without a-priori information about the vehicle. This study is the first proposed methodology for complete bridge modal identification, including operational natural frequencies, mode shapes and damping ratios using \textit{moving vehicles sensor data}. Comments: submitted to Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Applications (stat.AP) Cite as: arXiv:2001.01797 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2001.01797v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2001.01797 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing 141 (2020) 106733 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymssp.2020.106733 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Soheil Sadeghi Eshkevari [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 6 Jan 2020 22:21:11 UTC (2,529 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Bridge Modal Identification using Acceleration Measurements within Moving Vehicles, by Soheil Sadeghi Eshkevari and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-01 Change to browse by: eess stat stat.AP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
