<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Sampling Theory of Jointly Bandlimited Time-vertex Graph Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21412v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:42.125421+00:00

## Notes

[2508.21412v1] Sampling Theory of Jointly Bandlimited Time-vertex Graph Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2508.21412v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2508.21412v1 (eess) [Submitted on 29 Aug 2025] Title: Sampling Theory of Jointly Bandlimited Time-vertex Graph Signals Authors: Hang Sheng , Hui Feng , Junhao Yu , Feng Ji , Bo Hu View a PDF of the paper titled Sampling Theory of Jointly Bandlimited Time-vertex Graph Signals, by Hang Sheng and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Time-vertex graph signal (TVGS) models describe time-varying data with irregular structures. The bandlimitedness in the joint time-vertex Fourier spectral domain reflects smoothness in both temporal and graph topology. In this paper, we study the critical sampling of three types of TVGS including continuous-time signals, infinite-length sequences, and finite-length sequences in the time domain for each vertex on the graph. For a jointly bandlimited TVGS, we prove a lower bound on sampling density or sampling ratio, which depends on the measure of the spectral support in the joint time-vertex Fourier spectral domain. We also provide a lower bound on the sampling density or sampling ratio of each vertex on sampling sets for perfect recovery. To demonstrate that critical sampling is achievable, we propose the sampling and reconstruction procedures for the different types of TVGS. Finally, we show how the proposed sampling schemes can be applied to numerical as well as real datasets. Comments: This paper was published in Signal Processing, Elsevier Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2508.21412 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2508.21412v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2508.21412 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Signal Processing, 2024, 222: 109522 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2024.109522 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Hang Sheng [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 29 Aug 2025 08:33:32 UTC (4,025 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Sampling Theory of Jointly Bandlimited Time-vertex Graph Signals, by Hang Sheng and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-08 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
