<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Barwise Music Structure Analysis with the Correlation Block-Matching Segmentation Algorithm

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.18604v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:19.891412+00:00

## Notes

[2311.18604v1] Barwise Music Structure Analysis with the Correlation Block-Matching Segmentation Algorithm Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2311.18604v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2311.18604v1 (cs) [Submitted on 30 Nov 2023] Title: Barwise Music Structure Analysis with the Correlation Block-Matching Segmentation Algorithm Authors: Axel Marmoret , Jérémy E. Cohen , Frédéric Bimbot View a PDF of the paper titled Barwise Music Structure Analysis with the Correlation Block-Matching Segmentation Algorithm, by Axel Marmoret and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Music Structure Analysis (MSA) is a Music Information Retrieval task consisting of representing a song in a simplified, organized manner by breaking it down into sections typically corresponding to ``chorus'', ``verse'', ``solo'', etc. In this work, we extend an MSA algorithm called the Correlation Block-Matching (CBM) algorithm introduced by (Marmoret et al., 2020, 2022b). The CBM algorithm is a dynamic programming algorithm that segments self-similarity matrices, which are a standard description used in MSA and in numerous other applications. In this work, self-similarity matrices are computed from the feature representation of an audio signal and time is sampled at the bar-scale. This study examines three different standard similarity functions for the computation of self-similarity matrices. Results show that, in optimal conditions, the proposed algorithm achieves a level of performance which is competitive with supervised state-of-the-art methods while only requiring knowledge of bar positions. In addition, the algorithm is made open-source and is highly customizable. Comments: 19 pages, 13 figures, 11 tables, 1 algorithm, published in Transactions of the International Society for Music Information Retrieval Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ACM classes: H.5.5 Cite as: arXiv:2311.18604 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2311.18604v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.18604 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Transactions of the International Society for Music Information Retrieval, 6(1), 2023, 167--185 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5334/tismir.167 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Axel Marmoret [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 30 Nov 2023 15:00:25 UTC (642 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Barwise Music Structure Analysis with the Correlation Block-Matching Segmentation Algorithm, by Axel Marmoret and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
