<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Exploring trends in audio mixes and masters: Insights from a dataset analysis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03373v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:23.173009+00:00

## Notes

[2412.03373v1] Exploring trends in audio mixes and masters: Insights from a dataset analysis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2412.03373v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2412.03373v1 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Dec 2024] Title: Exploring trends in audio mixes and masters: Insights from a dataset analysis Authors: Angeliki Mourgela , Elio Quinton , Spyridon Bissas , Joshua D. Reiss , David Ronan View a PDF of the paper titled Exploring trends in audio mixes and masters: Insights from a dataset analysis, by Angeliki Mourgela and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: We present an analysis of a dataset of audio metrics and aesthetic considerations about mixes and masters provided by the web platform MixCheck studio. The platform is designed for educational purposes, primarily targeting amateur music producers, and aimed at analysing their recordings prior to them being released. The analysis focuses on the following data points: integrated loudness, mono compatibility, presence of clipping and phase issues, compression and tonal profile across 30 user-specified genres. Both mixed (mixes) and mastered audio (masters) are included in the analysis, where mixes refer to the initial combination and balance of individual tracks, and masters refer to the final refined version optimized for distribution. Results show that loudness-related issues along with dynamics issues are the most prevalent, particularly in mastered audio. However mastered audio presents better results in compression than just mixed audio. Additionally, results show that mastered audio has a lower percentage of stereo field and phase issues. Comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, Presented at the AES 157th Convention October 2024, New York, USA Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2412.03373 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2412.03373v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2412.03373 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Angeliki Mourgela [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 4 Dec 2024 15:01:20 UTC (1,555 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Exploring trends in audio mixes and masters: Insights from a dataset analysis, by Angeliki Mourgela and 4 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-12 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
