<!-- source_type: articles -->
# What is missing in deep music generation? A study of repetition and structure in popular music

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.00182v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:19.040792+00:00

## Notes

[2209.00182v1] What is missing in deep music generation? A study of repetition and structure in popular music Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2209.00182v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2209.00182v1 (cs) [Submitted on 1 Sep 2022] Title: What is missing in deep music generation? A study of repetition and structure in popular music Authors: Shuqi Dai , Huiran Yu , Roger B. Dannenberg View a PDF of the paper titled What is missing in deep music generation? A study of repetition and structure in popular music, by Shuqi Dai and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Structure is one of the most essential aspects of music, and music structure is commonly indicated through repetition. However, the nature of repetition and structure in music is still not well understood, especially in the context of music generation, and much remains to be explored with Music Information Retrieval (MIR) techniques. Analyses of two popular music datasets (Chinese and American) illustrate important music construction principles: (1) structure exists at multiple hierarchical levels, (2) songs use repetition and limited vocabulary so that individual songs do not follow general statistics of song collections, (3) structure interacts with rhythm, melody, harmony, and predictability, and (4) over the course of a song, repetition is not random, but follows a general trend as revealed by cross-entropy. These and other findings offer challenges as well as opportunities for deep-learning music generation and suggest new formal music criteria and evaluation methods. Music from recent music generation systems is analyzed and compared to human-composed music in our datasets, often revealing striking differences from a structural perspective. Comments: In Proceedings of the 23rd Int. Society for Music Information Retrieval (ISMIR) 2022 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2209.00182 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2209.00182v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2209.00182 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Shuqi Dai [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 1 Sep 2022 02:22:11 UTC (9,398 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled What is missing in deep music generation? A study of repetition and structure in popular music, by Shuqi Dai and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
