<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Learning to Generate Music With Sentiment

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2103.06125v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:19.550170+00:00

## Notes

[2103.06125v1] Learning to Generate Music With Sentiment Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2103.06125v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2103.06125v1 (cs) [Submitted on 9 Mar 2021] Title: Learning to Generate Music With Sentiment Authors: Lucas N. Ferreira , Jim Whitehead View a PDF of the paper titled Learning to Generate Music With Sentiment, by Lucas N. Ferreira and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Deep Learning models have shown very promising results in automatically composing polyphonic music pieces. However, it is very hard to control such models in order to guide the compositions towards a desired goal. We are interested in controlling a model to automatically generate music with a given sentiment. This paper presents a generative Deep Learning model that can be directed to compose music with a given sentiment. Besides music generation, the same model can be used for sentiment analysis of symbolic music. We evaluate the accuracy of the model in classifying sentiment of symbolic music using a new dataset of video game soundtracks. Results show that our model is able to obtain good prediction accuracy. A user study shows that human subjects agreed that the generated music has the intended sentiment, however negative pieces can be ambiguous. Comments: International Society for Music Information Retrieval (2019) Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2103.06125 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2103.06125v1 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2103.06125 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Lucas N. Ferreira [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 9 Mar 2021 03:16:52 UTC (1,243 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Learning to Generate Music With Sentiment, by Lucas N. Ferreira and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-03 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
