<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Symbolic Music Representations for Classification Tasks: A Systematic Evaluation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02567v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:02.332797+00:00

## Notes

[2309.02567v2] Symbolic Music Representations for Classification Tasks: A Systematic Evaluation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2309.02567v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2309.02567v2 (eess) [Submitted on 5 Sep 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 10 Sep 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Symbolic Music Representations for Classification Tasks: A Systematic Evaluation Authors: Huan Zhang , Emmanouil Karystinaios , Simon Dixon , Gerhard Widmer , Carlos Eduardo Cancino-Chacón View a PDF of the paper titled Symbolic Music Representations for Classification Tasks: A Systematic Evaluation, by Huan Zhang and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Music Information Retrieval (MIR) has seen a recent surge in deep learning-based approaches, which often involve encoding symbolic music (i.e., music represented in terms of discrete note events) in an image-like or language like fashion. However, symbolic music is neither an image nor a sentence, and research in the symbolic domain lacks a comprehensive overview of the different available representations. In this paper, we investigate matrix (piano roll), sequence, and graph representations and their corresponding neural architectures, in combination with symbolic scores and performances on three piece-level classification tasks. We also introduce a novel graph representation for symbolic performances and explore the capability of graph representations in global classification tasks. Our systematic evaluation shows advantages and limitations of each input representation. Our results suggest that the graph representation, as the newest and least explored among the three approaches, exhibits promising performance, while being more light-weight in training. Comments: To be published in the Proceedings of the 24th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2023), Milan, Italy Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2309.02567 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2309.02567v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.02567 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proceedings of the 24th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2023), Milan, Italy Submission history From: Huan Zhang [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 5 Sep 2023 20:27:31 UTC (1,805 KB) [v2] Sun, 10 Sep 2023 12:36:04 UTC (1,805 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Symbolic Music Representations for Classification Tasks: A Systematic Evaluation, by Huan Zhang and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
