<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Qwen-Audio: Advancing Universal Audio Understanding via Unified Large-Scale Audio-Language Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07919v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:26.253151+00:00

## Notes

[2311.07919v2] Qwen-Audio: Advancing Universal Audio Understanding via Unified Large-Scale Audio-Language Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2311.07919v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2311.07919v2 (eess) [Submitted on 14 Nov 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 21 Dec 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Qwen-Audio: Advancing Universal Audio Understanding via Unified Large-Scale Audio-Language Models Authors: Yunfei Chu , Jin Xu , Xiaohuan Zhou , Qian Yang , Shiliang Zhang , Zhijie Yan , Chang Zhou , Jingren Zhou View a PDF of the paper titled Qwen-Audio: Advancing Universal Audio Understanding via Unified Large-Scale Audio-Language Models, by Yunfei Chu and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Recently, instruction-following audio-language models have received broad attention for audio interaction with humans. However, the absence of pre-trained audio models capable of handling diverse audio types and tasks has hindered progress in this field. Consequently, most existing works have only been able to support a limited range of interaction capabilities. In this paper, we develop the Qwen-Audio model and address this limitation by scaling up audio-language pre-training to cover over 30 tasks and various audio types, such as human speech, natural sounds, music, and songs, to facilitate universal audio understanding abilities. However, directly co-training all tasks and datasets can lead to interference issues, as the textual labels associated with different datasets exhibit considerable variations due to differences in task focus, language, granularity of annotation, and text structure. To overcome the one-to-many interference, we carefully design a multi-task training framework by conditioning on a sequence of hierarchical tags to the decoder for encouraging knowledge sharing and avoiding interference through shared and specified tags respectively. Remarkably, Qwen-Audio achieves impressive performance across diverse benchmark tasks without requiring any task-specific fine-tuning, surpassing its counterparts. Building upon the capabilities of Qwen-Audio, we further develop Qwen-Audio-Chat, which allows for input from various audios and text inputs, enabling multi-turn dialogues and supporting various audio-central scenarios. Comments: The code, checkpoints and demo are released at this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:2311.07919 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2311.07919v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.07919 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jin Xu [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 05:34:50 UTC (5,793 KB) [v2] Thu, 21 Dec 2023 10:20:42 UTC (4,675 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Qwen-Audio: Advancing Universal Audio Understanding via Unified Large-Scale Audio-Language Models, by Yunfei Chu and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL cs.LG eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
