<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio Transport: A Generalized Portamento via Optimal Transport

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1906.06763v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:55.838517+00:00

## Notes

[1906.06763v1] Audio Transport: A Generalized Portamento via Optimal Transport Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1906.06763v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:1906.06763v1 (eess) [Submitted on 16 Jun 2019] Title: Audio Transport: A Generalized Portamento via Optimal Transport Authors: Trevor Henderson , Justin Solomon View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Transport: A Generalized Portamento via Optimal Transport, by Trevor Henderson and Justin Solomon View PDF Abstract: This paper proposes a new method to interpolate between two audio signals. As an interpolation parameter is changed, the pitches in one signal slide to the pitches in the other, producing a portamento, or musical glide. The assignment of pitches in one sound to pitches in the other is accomplished by solving a 1-dimensional optimal transport problem. In addition, we introduce several techniques that preserve the audio fidelity over this highly non-linear transformation. A portamento is a natural way for a musician to transition between notes, but traditionally it has only been possible for instruments with a continuously variable pitch like the human voice or the violin. Audio transport extends the portamento to any instrument, even polyphonic ones. Moreover, the effect can be used to transition between different instruments, groups of instruments, or really any transient-less audio signals. The audio transport effect operates in real-time; we open-source implementation is provided. In experiments with sinusoidal inputs, the interpolating effect is indistinguishable from ideal sine sweeps. In general, the effect produces clear, musical results for a wide variety of inputs. Comments: Accepted to The 22nd International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (DAFx-19), Birmingham, UK, September 2-6, 2019 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:1906.06763 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:1906.06763v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1906.06763 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Trevor Henderson [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 16 Jun 2019 20:18:07 UTC (1,319 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Transport: A Generalized Portamento via Optimal Transport, by Trevor Henderson and Justin Solomon View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
