<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Effect of acoustic scene complexity and visual scene representation on auditory perception in virtual audio-visual environments

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.15909v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:16.112319+00:00

## Notes

[2106.15909v2] Effect of acoustic scene complexity and visual scene representation on auditory perception in virtual audio-visual environments Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2106.15909v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2106.15909v2 (eess) [Submitted on 30 Jun 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 7 Nov 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Effect of acoustic scene complexity and visual scene representation on auditory perception in virtual audio-visual environments Authors: Stefan Fichna , Thomas Biberger , Bernhard U. Seeber , Stephan D. Ewert View a PDF of the paper titled Effect of acoustic scene complexity and visual scene representation on auditory perception in virtual audio-visual environments, by Stefan Fichna and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: In daily life, social interaction and acoustic communication often take place in complex acoustic environments (CAE) with a variety of interfering sounds and reverberation. For hearing research and the evaluation of hearing systems, simulated CAEs using virtual reality techniques have gained interest in the context of ecological validity. In the current study, the effect of scene complexity and visual representation of the scene on psychoacoustic measures like sound source location, distance perception, loudness, speech intelligibility, and listening effort in a virtual audio-visual environment was investigated. A 3-dimensional, 86-channel loudspeaker array was used to render the sound field in combination with or without a head-mounted display (HMD) to create an immersive stereoscopic visual representation of the scene. The scene consisted of a ring of eight (virtual) loudspeakers which played a target speech stimulus and nonsense speech interferers in several spatial conditions. Either an anechoic (snowy outdoor scenery) or echoic environment (loft apartment) with a reverberation time (T60) of about 1.5 s was simulated. In addition to varying the number of interferers, scene complexity was varied by assessing the psychoacoustic measures in isolated consecutive measurements orcsimultaneously. Results showed no significant effect of wearing the HMD on the data. Loudness and distance perception showed significantly different results when they were measured simultaneously instead of consecutively in isolation. The advantage of the suggested setup is that it can be directly transferred to a corresponding real room, enabling a 1:1 comparison and verification of the perception experiments in the real and virtual environment. Comments: Accepted publication in Proceedings of 3DA 2021 International Conference on Immersive and 3D Audio Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2106.15909 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2106.15909v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2106.15909 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/I3DA48870.2021.9610916 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Thomas Biberger Dr. [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 30 Jun 2021 08:53:48 UTC (1,272 KB) [v2] Sun, 7 Nov 2021 14:29:12 UTC (1,934 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Effect of acoustic scene complexity and visual scene representation on auditory perception in virtual audio-visual environments, by Stefan Fichna and 3 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
