<!-- source_type: articles -->
# MMT-BERT: Chord-aware Symbolic Music Generation Based on Multitrack Music Transformer and MusicBERT

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00919v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:38.349304+00:00

## Notes

[2409.00919v1] MMT-BERT: Chord-aware Symbolic Music Generation Based on Multitrack Music Transformer and MusicBERT Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2409.00919v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2409.00919v1 (cs) [Submitted on 2 Sep 2024] Title: MMT-BERT: Chord-aware Symbolic Music Generation Based on Multitrack Music Transformer and MusicBERT Authors: Jinlong Zhu , Keigo Sakurai , Ren Togo , Takahiro Ogawa , Miki Haseyama View a PDF of the paper titled MMT-BERT: Chord-aware Symbolic Music Generation Based on Multitrack Music Transformer and MusicBERT, by Jinlong Zhu and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: We propose a novel symbolic music representation and Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) framework specially designed for symbolic multitrack music generation. The main theme of symbolic music generation primarily encompasses the preprocessing of music data and the implementation of a deep learning framework. Current techniques dedicated to symbolic music generation generally encounter two significant challenges: training data's lack of information about chords and scales and the requirement of specially designed model architecture adapted to the unique format of symbolic music representation. In this paper, we solve the above problems by introducing new symbolic music representation with MusicLang chord analysis model. We propose our MMT-BERT architecture adapting to the representation. To build a robust multitrack music generator, we fine-tune a pre-trained MusicBERT model to serve as the discriminator, and incorporate relativistic standard loss. This approach, supported by the in-depth understanding of symbolic music encoded within MusicBERT, fortifies the consonance and humanity of music generated by our method. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach which strictly follows the state-of-the-art methods. Comments: Accepted to the 25th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2024) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2409.00919 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2409.00919v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.00919 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Keigo Sakurai [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 2 Sep 2024 03:18:56 UTC (1,217 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled MMT-BERT: Chord-aware Symbolic Music Generation Based on Multitrack Music Transformer and MusicBERT, by Jinlong Zhu and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
