<!-- source_type: articles -->
# APCodec: A Neural Audio Codec with Parallel Amplitude and Phase Spectrum Encoding and Decoding

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10533v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:50.991816+00:00

## Notes

[2402.10533v2] APCodec: A Neural Audio Codec with Parallel Amplitude and Phase Spectrum Encoding and Decoding Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2402.10533v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2402.10533v2 (cs) [Submitted on 16 Feb 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 24 Sep 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: APCodec: A Neural Audio Codec with Parallel Amplitude and Phase Spectrum Encoding and Decoding Authors: Yang Ai , Xiao-Hang Jiang , Ye-Xin Lu , Hui-Peng Du , Zhen-Hua Ling View a PDF of the paper titled APCodec: A Neural Audio Codec with Parallel Amplitude and Phase Spectrum Encoding and Decoding, by Yang Ai and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This paper introduces a novel neural audio codec targeting high waveform sampling rates and low bitrates named APCodec, which seamlessly integrates the strengths of parametric codecs and waveform codecs. The APCodec revolutionizes the process of audio encoding and decoding by concurrently handling the amplitude and phase spectra as audio parametric characteristics like parametric codecs. It is composed of an encoder and a decoder with the modified ConvNeXt v2 network as the backbone, connected by a quantizer based on the residual vector quantization (RVQ) mechanism. The encoder compresses the audio amplitude and phase spectra in parallel, amalgamating them into a continuous latent code at a reduced temporal resolution. This code is subsequently quantized by the quantizer. Ultimately, the decoder reconstructs the audio amplitude and phase spectra in parallel, and the decoded waveform is obtained by inverse short-time Fourier transform. To ensure the fidelity of decoded audio like waveform codecs, spectral-level loss, quantization loss, and generative adversarial network (GAN) based loss are collectively employed for training the APCodec. To support low-latency streamable inference, we employ feed-forward layers and causal deconvolutional layers in APCodec, incorporating a knowledge distillation training strategy to enhance the quality of decoded audio. Experimental results confirm that our proposed APCodec can encode 48 kHz audio at bitrate of just 6 kbps, with no significant degradation in the quality of the decoded audio. At the same bitrate, our proposed APCodec also demonstrates superior decoded audio quality and faster generation speed compared to well-known codecs, such as Encodec, AudioDec and DAC. Comments: Published at IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2402.10533 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2402.10533v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.10533 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Yang Ai [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 09:38:16 UTC (1,283 KB) [v2] Tue, 24 Sep 2024 01:14:07 UTC (1,126 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled APCodec: A Neural Audio Codec with Parallel Amplitude and Phase Spectrum Encoding and Decoding, by Yang Ai and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-02 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
