<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Incorporating Ultrasound Tongue Images for Audio-Visual Speech Enhancement

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10455v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:00.346645+00:00

## Notes

[2309.10455v2] Incorporating Ultrasound Tongue Images for Audio-Visual Speech Enhancement Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2309.10455v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2309.10455v2 (eess) [Submitted on 19 Sep 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 20 Nov 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Incorporating Ultrasound Tongue Images for Audio-Visual Speech Enhancement Authors: Rui-Chen Zheng , Yang Ai , Zhen-Hua Ling View a PDF of the paper titled Incorporating Ultrasound Tongue Images for Audio-Visual Speech Enhancement, by Rui-Chen Zheng and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Audio-visual speech enhancement (AV-SE) aims to enhance degraded speech along with extra visual information such as lip videos, and has been shown to be more effective than audio-only speech enhancement. This paper proposes the incorporation of ultrasound tongue images to improve the performance of lip-based AV-SE systems further. To address the challenge of acquiring ultrasound tongue images during inference, we first propose to employ knowledge distillation during training to investigate the feasibility of leveraging tongue-related information without directly inputting ultrasound tongue images. Specifically, we guide an audio-lip speech enhancement student model to learn from a pre-trained audio-lip-tongue speech enhancement teacher model, thus transferring tongue-related knowledge. To better model the alignment between the lip and tongue modalities, we further propose the introduction of a lip-tongue key-value memory network into the AV-SE model. This network enables the retrieval of tongue features based on readily available lip features, thereby assisting the subsequent speech enhancement task. Experimental results demonstrate that both methods significantly improve the quality and intelligibility of the enhanced speech compared to traditional lip-based AV-SE baselines. Moreover, both proposed methods exhibit strong generalization performance on unseen speakers and in the presence of unseen noises. Furthermore, phone error rate (PER) analysis of automatic speech recognition (ASR) reveals that while all phonemes benefit from introducing ultrasound tongue images, palatal and velar consonants benefit most. Comments: Submmited to IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2305.14933 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2309.10455 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2309.10455v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.10455 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Rui-Chen Zheng [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 19 Sep 2023 09:12:27 UTC (413 KB) [v2] Mon, 20 Nov 2023 06:27:54 UTC (508 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Incorporating Ultrasound Tongue Images for Audio-Visual Speech Enhancement, by Rui-Chen Zheng and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
