<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio-Visual Speech Separation via Bottleneck Iterative Network

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2507.07270v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:17.681424+00:00

## Notes

[2507.07270v1] Audio-Visual Speech Separation via Bottleneck Iterative Network Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2507.07270v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2507.07270v1 (cs) [Submitted on 9 Jul 2025] Title: Audio-Visual Speech Separation via Bottleneck Iterative Network Authors: Sidong Zhang , Shiv Shankar , Trang Nguyen , Andrea Fanelli , Madalina Fiterau View a PDF of the paper titled Audio-Visual Speech Separation via Bottleneck Iterative Network, by Sidong Zhang and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Integration of information from non-auditory cues can significantly improve the performance of speech-separation models. Often such models use deep modality-specific networks to obtain unimodal features, and risk being too costly or lightweight but lacking capacity. In this work, we present an iterative representation refinement approach called Bottleneck Iterative Network (BIN), a technique that repeatedly progresses through a lightweight fusion block, while bottlenecking fusion representations by fusion tokens. This helps improve the capacity of the model, while avoiding major increase in model size and balancing between the model performance and training cost. We test BIN on challenging noisy audio-visual speech separation tasks, and show that our approach consistently outperforms state-of-the-art benchmark models with respect to SI-SDRi on NTCD-TIMIT and LRS3+WHAM! datasets, while simultaneously achieving a reduction of more than 50% in training and GPU inference time across nearly all settings. Comments: Accepted to the 42nd International Conference on Machine Learning Workshop on Machine Learning for Audio Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2507.07270 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2507.07270v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.07270 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sidong Zhang [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 9 Jul 2025 20:32:09 UTC (1,417 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio-Visual Speech Separation via Bottleneck Iterative Network, by Sidong Zhang and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
