<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Point Cloud Audio Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2105.02469v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:30.143980+00:00

## Notes

[2105.02469v2] Point Cloud Audio Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2105.02469v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2105.02469v2 (eess) [Submitted on 6 May 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 29 Jul 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Point Cloud Audio Processing Authors: Krishna Subramani , Paris Smaragdis View a PDF of the paper titled Point Cloud Audio Processing, by Krishna Subramani and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Most audio processing pipelines involve transformations that act on fixed-dimensional input representations of audio. For example, when using the Short Time Fourier Transform (STFT) the DFT size specifies a fixed dimension for the input representation. As a consequence, most audio machine learning models are designed to process fixed-size vector inputs which often prohibits the repurposing of learned models on audio with different sampling rates or alternative representations. We note, however, that the intrinsic spectral information in the audio signal is invariant to the choice of the input representation or the sampling rate. Motivated by this, we introduce a novel way of processing audio signals by treating them as a collection of points in feature space, and we use point cloud machine learning models that give us invariance to the choice of representation parameters, such as DFT size or the sampling rate. Additionally, we observe that these methods result in smaller models, and allow us to significantly subsample the input representation with minimal effects to a trained model performance. Comments: Accepted at WASPAA 2021, Code: this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2105.02469 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2105.02469v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2105.02469 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/WASPAA52581.2021.9632668 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Krishna Subramani [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 6 May 2021 07:04:59 UTC (301 KB) [v2] Thu, 29 Jul 2021 06:32:18 UTC (297 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Point Cloud Audio Processing, by Krishna Subramani and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
