<!-- source_type: articles -->
# DopplerBAS: Binaural Audio Synthesis Addressing Doppler Effect

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2212.07000v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:03.319462+00:00

## Notes

[2212.07000v3] DopplerBAS: Binaural Audio Synthesis Addressing Doppler Effect Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2212.07000v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2212.07000v3 (eess) [Submitted on 14 Dec 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 1 Jun 2023 (this version, v3)] Title: DopplerBAS: Binaural Audio Synthesis Addressing Doppler Effect Authors: Jinglin Liu , Zhenhui Ye , Qian Chen , Siqi Zheng , Wen Wang , Qinglin Zhang , Zhou Zhao View a PDF of the paper titled DopplerBAS: Binaural Audio Synthesis Addressing Doppler Effect, by Jinglin Liu and 6 other authors View PDF Abstract: Recently, binaural audio synthesis (BAS) has emerged as a promising research field for its applications in augmented and virtual realities. Binaural audio helps users orient themselves and establish immersion by providing the brain with interaural time differences reflecting spatial information. However, existing BAS methods are limited in terms of phase estimation, which is crucial for spatial hearing. In this paper, we propose the \textbf{DopplerBAS} method to explicitly address the Doppler effect of the moving sound source. Specifically, we calculate the radial relative velocity of the moving speaker in spherical coordinates, which further guides the synthesis of binaural audio. This simple method introduces no additional hyper-parameters and does not modify the loss functions, and is plug-and-play: it scales well to different types of backbones. DopperBAS distinctly improves the representative WarpNet and BinauralGrad backbones in the phase error metric and reaches a new state of the art (SOTA): 0.780 (versus the current SOTA 0.807). Experiments and ablation studies demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. Comments: Accepted to ACL 2023 short paper; key words: binaural audio, stereophonic sound Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2212.07000 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2212.07000v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2212.07000 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jinglin Liu [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 14 Dec 2022 03:18:21 UTC (81 KB) [v2] Fri, 16 Dec 2022 04:02:47 UTC (81 KB) [v3] Thu, 1 Jun 2023 07:35:11 UTC (7,047 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled DopplerBAS: Binaural Audio Synthesis Addressing Doppler Effect, by Jinglin Liu and 6 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-12 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
