<!-- source_type: articles -->
# AudioPairBank: Towards A Large-Scale Tag-Pair-Based Audio Content Analysis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1607.03766v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:18.181113+00:00

## Notes

[1607.03766v3] AudioPairBank: Towards A Large-Scale Tag-Pair-Based Audio Content Analysis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1607.03766v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1607.03766v3 (cs) [Submitted on 13 Jul 2016 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Jan 2018 (this version, v3)] Title: AudioPairBank: Towards A Large-Scale Tag-Pair-Based Audio Content Analysis Authors: Sebastian Sager , Benjamin Elizalde , Damian Borth , Christian Schulze , Bhiksha Raj , Ian Lane View a PDF of the paper titled AudioPairBank: Towards A Large-Scale Tag-Pair-Based Audio Content Analysis, by Sebastian Sager and Benjamin Elizalde and Damian Borth and Christian Schulze and Bhiksha Raj and Ian Lane View PDF Abstract: Recently, sound recognition has been used to identify sounds, such as car and river. However, sounds have nuances that may be better described by adjective-noun pairs such as slow car, and verb-noun pairs such as flying insects, which are under explored. Therefore, in this work we investigate the relation between audio content and both adjective-noun pairs and verb-noun pairs. Due to the lack of datasets with these kinds of annotations, we collected and processed the AudioPairBank corpus consisting of a combined total of 1,123 pairs and over 33,000 audio files. One contribution is the previously unavailable documentation of the challenges and implications of collecting audio recordings with these type of labels. A second contribution is to show the degree of correlation between the audio content and the labels through sound recognition experiments, which yielded results of 70% accuracy, hence also providing a performance benchmark. The results and study in this paper encourage further exploration of the nuances in audio and are meant to complement similar research performed on images and text in multimedia analysis. Comments: This paper is a revised version of "AudioSentibank: Large-scale Semantic Ontology of Acoustic Concepts for Audio Content Analysis" Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL) Cite as: arXiv:1607.03766 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1607.03766v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1607.03766 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Benjamin Elizalde [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 13 Jul 2016 14:31:54 UTC (614 KB) [v2] Fri, 18 Aug 2017 23:07:17 UTC (3,891 KB) [v3] Mon, 8 Jan 2018 21:36:04 UTC (3,892 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled AudioPairBank: Towards A Large-Scale Tag-Pair-Based Audio Content Analysis, by Sebastian Sager and Benjamin Elizalde and Damian Borth and Christian Schulze and Bhiksha Raj and Ian Lane View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2016-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Sebastian Sager Sebastian Säger Damian Borth Benjamin Elizalde Christian Schulze … export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
