<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Digital Democracy: Episode IV -- A New Hope, How a Corporation for Public Software Could Transform Digital Engagement for Government and Civil Society

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.08604v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:37.582538+00:00

## Notes

[1910.08604v3] Digital Democracy: Episode IV -- A New Hope, How a Corporation for Public Software Could Transform Digital Engagement for Government and Civil Society Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1910.08604v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computers and Society arXiv:1910.08604v3 (cs) [Submitted on 18 Oct 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 3 Mar 2020 (this version, v3)] Title: Digital Democracy: Episode IV -- A New Hope, How a Corporation for Public Software Could Transform Digital Engagement for Government and Civil Society Authors: John Gastil , Todd Davies View a PDF of the paper titled Digital Democracy: Episode IV -- A New Hope, How a Corporation for Public Software Could Transform Digital Engagement for Government and Civil Society, by John Gastil and Todd Davies View PDF Abstract: Though successive generations of digital technology have become increasingly powerful in the past twenty years, digital democracy has yet to realize its potential for deliberative transformation. The undemocratic exploitation of massive social media systems continued this trend, but it only worsened an existing problem of modern democracies, which were already struggling to develop deliberative infrastructure independent of digital technologies. There have been many creative conceptions of civic tech, but implementation has lagged behind innovation. This essay argues for implementing one such vision of digital democracy through the establishment of a public corporation. Modeled on the Corporation for Public Broadcasting in the U.S., this entity would foster the creation of new digital technology by providing a stable source of funding to nonprofit technologists, interest groups, civic organizations, government, researchers, private companies, and the public. Funded entities would produce and maintain software infrastructure for public benefit. The concluding sections identify what circumstances might create and sustain such an entity. Comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables, to appear in Digital Government: Research and Practice (DGOV) Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY) ; Social and Information Networks (cs.SI) MSC classes: K.4.1, K.5.2 ACM classes: K.4.1; K.5.2 Cite as: arXiv:1910.08604 [cs.CY] (or arXiv:1910.08604v3 [cs.CY] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1910.08604 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Digital Government: Research and Practice (DGOV), 1(1):Article 6, February 2020 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1145/3342194 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Todd Davies [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 18 Oct 2019 19:52:07 UTC (327 KB) [v2] Sun, 15 Dec 2019 03:44:40 UTC (388 KB) [v3] Tue, 3 Mar 2020 22:45:46 UTC (388 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Digital Democracy: Episode IV -- A New Hope, How a Corporation for Public Software Could Transform Digital Engagement for Government and Civil Society, by John Gastil and Todd Davies View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.CY < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.SI References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex John Gastil Todd Davies export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
