<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Distributed Detection of Sparse Stochastic Signals via Fusion of 1-bit Local Likelihood Ratios

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.09656v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:45.934204+00:00

## Notes

[1908.09656v2] Distributed Detection of Sparse Stochastic Signals via Fusion of 1-bit Local Likelihood Ratios Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1908.09656v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1908.09656v2 (eess) [Submitted on 26 Aug 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 5 Nov 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: Distributed Detection of Sparse Stochastic Signals via Fusion of 1-bit Local Likelihood Ratios Authors: Chengxi Li , You He , Xueqian Wang , Gang Li , Pramod K. Varshney View a PDF of the paper titled Distributed Detection of Sparse Stochastic Signals via Fusion of 1-bit Local Likelihood Ratios, by Chengxi Li and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this letter, we consider the detection of sparse stochastic signals with sensor networks (SNs), where the fusion center (FC) collects 1-bit data from the local sensors and then performs global detection. For this problem, a newly developed 1-bit locally most powerful test (LMPT) detector requires 3.3Q sensors to asymptotically achieve the same detection performance as the centralized LMPT (cLMPT) detector with Q sensors. This 1-bit LMPT detector is based on 1-bit quantized observations without any additional processing at the local sensors. However, direct quantization of observations is not the most efficient processing strategy at the sensors since it incurs unnecessary information loss. In this letter, we propose an improved-1-bit LMPT (Im-1-bit LMPT) detector that fuses local 1-bit quantized likelihood ratios (LRs) instead of directly quantized local observations. In addition, we design the quantization thresholds at the local sensors to ensure asymptotically optimal detection performance of the proposed detector. It is shown theoretically and numerically that, with the designed quantization thresholds, the proposed Im-1-bit LMPT detector for the detection of sparse signals requires less number of sensor nodes to compensate for the performance loss caused by 1-bit quantization. Comments: 5 pages,2 figures, published in IEEE Signal Processing Letters (SPL) Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1908.09656 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1908.09656v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1908.09656 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Letters, vol. 26, no. 12, pp. 1738-1742, Dec. 2019 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/LSP.2019.2945193 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Chengxi Li [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 26 Aug 2019 13:01:45 UTC (640 KB) [v2] Tue, 5 Nov 2019 01:31:50 UTC (643 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Distributed Detection of Sparse Stochastic Signals via Fusion of 1-bit Local Likelihood Ratios, by Chengxi Li and 4 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-08 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
