<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots?

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17924v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:34.154559+00:00

## Notes

[2412.17924v2] Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots? Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2412.17924v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2412.17924v2 (cs) [Submitted on 23 Dec 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 6 Aug 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots? Authors: Bartłomiej Marek , Piotr Kawa , Piotr Syga View a PDF of the paper titled Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots?, by Bart{\l}omiej Marek and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Since the majority of audio DeepFake (DF) detection methods are trained on English-centric datasets, their applicability to non-English languages remains largely unexplored. In this work, we present a benchmark for the multilingual audio DF detection challenge by evaluating various adaptation strategies. Our experiments focus on analyzing models trained on English benchmark datasets, as well as intra-linguistic (same-language) and cross-linguistic adaptation approaches. Our results indicate considerable variations in detection efficacy, highlighting the difficulties of multilingual settings. We show that limiting the dataset to English negatively impacts the efficacy, while stressing the importance of the data in the target language. Comments: Keywords: Audio DeepFakes, DeepFake detection, multilingual audio DeepFakes Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2412.17924 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2412.17924v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2412.17924 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Bartłomiej Marek [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 23 Dec 2024 19:32:53 UTC (923 KB) [v2] Wed, 6 Aug 2025 12:54:16 UTC (47 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Are audio DeepFake detection models polyglots?, by Bart{\l}omiej Marek and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-12 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
