<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Defining Fundamental Frequency for Almost Harmonic Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2003.10767v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:44.273704+00:00

## Notes

[2003.10767v2] Defining Fundamental Frequency for Almost Harmonic Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2003.10767v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2003.10767v2 (eess) [Submitted on 24 Mar 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 30 Oct 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: Defining Fundamental Frequency for Almost Harmonic Signals Authors: Filip Elvander , Andreas Jakobsson View a PDF of the paper titled Defining Fundamental Frequency for Almost Harmonic Signals, by Filip Elvander and Andreas Jakobsson View PDF Abstract: In this work, we consider the modeling of signals that are almost, but not quite, harmonic, i.e., composed of sinusoids whose frequencies are close to being integer multiples of a common frequency. Typically, in applications, such signals are treated as perfectly harmonic, allowing for the estimation of their fundamental frequency, despite the signals not actually being periodic. Herein, we provide three different definitions of a concept of fundamental frequency for such inharmonic signals and study the implications of the different choices for modeling and estimation. We show that one of the definitions corresponds to a misspecified modeling scenario, and provides a theoretical benchmark for analyzing the behavior of estimators derived under a perfectly harmonic assumption. The second definition stems from optimal mass transport theory and yields a robust and easily interpretable concept of fundamental frequency based on the signals' spectral properties. The third definition interprets the inharmonic signal as an observation of a randomly perturbed harmonic signal. This allows for computing a hybrid information theoretical bound on estimation performance, as well as for finding an estimator attaining the bound. The theoretical findings are illustrated using numerical examples. Comments: Accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2003.10767 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2003.10767v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2003.10767 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 2020, volume 68, pages 6453 - 6466 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2020.3035466 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Filip Elvander [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 24 Mar 2020 11:01:57 UTC (337 KB) [v2] Fri, 30 Oct 2020 11:44:23 UTC (311 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Defining Fundamental Frequency for Almost Harmonic Signals, by Filip Elvander and Andreas Jakobsson View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-03 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
