<!-- source_type: articles -->
# SafeEar: Content Privacy-Preserving Audio Deepfake Detection

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09272v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:50.605909+00:00

## Notes

[2409.09272v1] SafeEar: Content Privacy-Preserving Audio Deepfake Detection Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2409.09272v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Cryptography and Security arXiv:2409.09272v1 (cs) [Submitted on 14 Sep 2024] Title: SafeEar: Content Privacy-Preserving Audio Deepfake Detection Authors: Xinfeng Li , Kai Li , Yifan Zheng , Chen Yan , Xiaoyu Ji , Wenyuan Xu View a PDF of the paper titled SafeEar: Content Privacy-Preserving Audio Deepfake Detection, by Xinfeng Li and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Text-to-Speech (TTS) and Voice Conversion (VC) models have exhibited remarkable performance in generating realistic and natural audio. However, their dark side, audio deepfake poses a significant threat to both society and individuals. Existing countermeasures largely focus on determining the genuineness of speech based on complete original audio recordings, which however often contain private content. This oversight may refrain deepfake detection from many applications, particularly in scenarios involving sensitive information like business secrets. In this paper, we propose SafeEar, a novel framework that aims to detect deepfake audios without relying on accessing the speech content within. Our key idea is to devise a neural audio codec into a novel decoupling model that well separates the semantic and acoustic information from audio samples, and only use the acoustic information (e.g., prosody and timbre) for deepfake detection. In this way, no semantic content will be exposed to the detector. To overcome the challenge of identifying diverse deepfake audio without semantic clues, we enhance our deepfake detector with real-world codec augmentation. Extensive experiments conducted on four benchmark datasets demonstrate SafeEar's effectiveness in detecting various deepfake techniques with an equal error rate (EER) down to 2.02%. Simultaneously, it shields five-language speech content from being deciphered by both machine and human auditory analysis, demonstrated by word error rates (WERs) all above 93.93% and our user study. Furthermore, our benchmark constructed for anti-deepfake and anti-content recovery evaluation helps provide a basis for future research in the realms of audio privacy preservation and deepfake detection. Comments: Accepted by ACM CCS 2024. Please cite this paper as "Xinfeng Li, Kai Li, Yifan Zheng, Chen Yan, Xiaoyu Ji, Wenyuan Xu. SafeEar: Content Privacy-Preserving Audio Deepfake Detection. In Proceedings of ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), 2024." Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2409.09272 [cs.CR] (or arXiv:2409.09272v1 [cs.CR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.09272 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Xinfeng Li [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 14 Sep 2024 02:45:09 UTC (4,571 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled SafeEar: Content Privacy-Preserving Audio Deepfake Detection, by Xinfeng Li and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CR < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.MM cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
