<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Music Performance Analysis: A Survey

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.00178v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:44.108546+00:00

## Notes

[1907.00178v1] Music Performance Analysis: A Survey Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1907.00178v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Retrieval arXiv:1907.00178v1 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Jun 2019] Title: Music Performance Analysis: A Survey Authors: Alexander Lerch , Claire Arthur , Ashis Pati , Siddharth Gururani View a PDF of the paper titled Music Performance Analysis: A Survey, by Alexander Lerch and Claire Arthur and Ashis Pati and Siddharth Gururani View PDF Abstract: Music Information Retrieval (MIR) tends to focus on the analysis of audio signals. Often, a single music recording is used as representative of a "song" even though different performances of the same song may reveal different properties. A performance is distinct in many ways from a (arguably more abstract) representation of a "song," "piece," or musical score. The characteristics of the (recorded) performance -- as opposed to the score or musical idea -- can have a major impact on how a listener perceives music. The analysis of music performance, however, has been traditionally only a peripheral topic for the MIR research community. This paper surveys the field of Music Performance Analysis (MPA) from various perspectives, discusses its significance to the field of MIR, and points out opportunities for future research in this field. Comments: To be published in: Proceedings of the International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR), Delft, 2019 Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR) ; Multimedia (cs.MM) Cite as: arXiv:1907.00178 [cs.IR] (or arXiv:1907.00178v1 [cs.IR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1907.00178 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Alexander Lerch [ view email ] [via Alexander Lerch as proxy] [v1] Sat, 29 Jun 2019 10:43:27 UTC (56 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Music Performance Analysis: A Survey, by Alexander Lerch and Claire Arthur and Ashis Pati and Siddharth Gururani View PDF TeX Source view license Additional Features Audio Summary Current browse context: cs.IR < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Alexander Lerch Claire Arthur Kumar Ashis Pati Siddharth Gururani export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
