<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Field Programmable DSP Arrays - A Novel Reconfigurable Architecture for Efficient Realization of Digital Signal Processing Functions

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1305.3251v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:44.886452+00:00

## Notes

[1305.3251v1] Field Programmable DSP Arrays - A Novel Reconfigurable Architecture for Efficient Realization of Digital Signal Processing Functions Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1305.3251v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Other Computer Science arXiv:1305.3251v1 (cs) [Submitted on 13 May 2013] Title: Field Programmable DSP Arrays - A Novel Reconfigurable Architecture for Efficient Realization of Digital Signal Processing Functions Authors: Amitabha Sinha , Soumojit Acharyya , Suranjan Chakraborty , Mitrava Sarkar View a PDF of the paper titled Field Programmable DSP Arrays - A Novel Reconfigurable Architecture for Efficient Realization of Digital Signal Processing Functions, by Amitabha Sinha and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Digital Signal Processing functions are widely used in real time high speed applications. Those functions are generally implemented either on ASICs with inflexibility, or on FPGAs with bottlenecks of relatively smaller utilization factor or lower speed compared to ASIC. The proposed reconfigurable DSP processor is redolent to FPGA, but with basic fixed Common Modules (CMs) (like adders, subtractors, multipliers, scaling units, shifters) instead of CLBs. This paper introduces the development of a reconfigurable DSP processor that integrates different filter and transform functions. The switching between DSP functions is occurred by reconfiguring the interconnection between CMs. Validation of the proposed reconfigurable architecture has been achieved on Virtex5 FPGA. The architecture provides sufficient amount of flexibility, parallelism and scalability. Comments: 18 pages, 17 figures. This paper has been published into Signal & Image Processing : An International Journal (SIPIJ - AIRCC) Vol.4, No.2, April 2013. this http URL Subjects: Other Computer Science (cs.OH) Cite as: arXiv:1305.3251 [cs.OH] (or arXiv:1305.3251v1 [cs.OH] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1305.3251 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Signal & Image Processing : An International Journal (SIPIJ - AIRCC) Vol.4, No.2, April 2013 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5121/sipij.2013.4204 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Suranjan Chakraborty [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 13 May 2013 16:37:14 UTC (703 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Field Programmable DSP Arrays - A Novel Reconfigurable Architecture for Efficient Realization of Digital Signal Processing Functions, by Amitabha Sinha and 2 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.OH < prev | next > new | recent | 2013-05 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Amitabha Sinha Soumojit Acharyya Suranjan Chakraborty Mitrava Sarkar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
