<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Deep Active Audio Feature Learning in Resource-Constrained Environments

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13201v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:19.694358+00:00

## Notes

[2308.13201v2] Deep Active Audio Feature Learning in Resource-Constrained Environments Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2308.13201v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2308.13201v2 (cs) [Submitted on 25 Aug 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 1 Jul 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: Deep Active Audio Feature Learning in Resource-Constrained Environments Authors: Md Mohaimenuzzaman , Christoph Bergmeir , Bernd Meyer View a PDF of the paper titled Deep Active Audio Feature Learning in Resource-Constrained Environments, by Md Mohaimenuzzaman and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: The scarcity of labelled data makes training Deep Neural Network (DNN) models in bioacoustic applications challenging. In typical bioacoustics applications, manually labelling the required amount of data can be prohibitively expensive. To effectively identify both new and current classes, DNN models must continue to learn new features from a modest amount of fresh data. Active Learning (AL) is an approach that can help with this learning while requiring little labelling effort. Nevertheless, the use of fixed feature extraction approaches limits feature quality, resulting in underutilization of the benefits of AL. We describe an AL framework that addresses this issue by incorporating feature extraction into the AL loop and refining the feature extractor after each round of manual annotation. In addition, we use raw audio processing rather than spectrograms, which is a novel approach. Experiments reveal that the proposed AL framework requires 14.3%, 66.7%, and 47.4% less labelling effort on benchmark audio datasets ESC-50, UrbanSound8k, and InsectWingBeat, respectively, for a large DNN model and similar savings on a microcontroller-based counterpart. Furthermore, we showcase the practical relevance of our study by incorporating data from conservation biology projects. All codes are publicly available on GitHub. Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2308.13201 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2308.13201v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.13201 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE/ACM TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO, SPEECH, AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 32, 2024 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2024.3416697 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Md Mohaimenuzzaman [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 25 Aug 2023 06:45:02 UTC (1,133 KB) [v2] Mon, 1 Jul 2024 03:17:51 UTC (4,655 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Deep Active Audio Feature Learning in Resource-Constrained Environments, by Md Mohaimenuzzaman and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
