<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Towards Multimodal MIR: Predicting individual differences from music-induced movement

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2007.10695v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:06.878708+00:00

## Notes

[2007.10695v1] Towards Multimodal MIR: Predicting individual differences from music-induced movement Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2007.10695v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2007.10695v1 (cs) [Submitted on 21 Jul 2020] Title: Towards Multimodal MIR: Predicting individual differences from music-induced movement Authors: Yudhik Agrawal , Samyak Jain , Emily Carlson , Petri Toiviainen , Vinoo Alluri View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Multimodal MIR: Predicting individual differences from music-induced movement, by Yudhik Agrawal and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: As the field of Music Information Retrieval grows, it is important to take into consideration the multi-modality of music and how aspects of musical engagement such as movement and gesture might be taken into account. Bodily movement is universally associated with music and reflective of important individual features related to music preference such as personality, mood, and empathy. Future multimodal MIR systems may benefit from taking these aspects into account. The current study addresses this by identifying individual differences, specifically Big Five personality traits, and scores on the Empathy and Systemizing Quotients (EQ/SQ) from participants' free dance movements. Our model successfully explored the unseen space for personality as well as EQ, SQ, which has not previously been accomplished for the latter. R2 scores for personality, EQ, and SQ were 76.3%, 77.1%, and 86.7% respectively. As a follow-up, we investigated which bodily joints were most important in defining these traits. We discuss how further research may explore how the mapping of these traits to movement patterns can be used to build a more personalized, multi-modal recommendation system, as well as potential therapeutic applications. Comments: Appearing in the proceedings of the 21st International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2020) (camera-ready version) Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:2007.10695 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2007.10695v1 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2007.10695 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, (2020) 54-61 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4245368 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Yudhik Agrawal [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 21 Jul 2020 10:10:58 UTC (3,548 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Multimodal MIR: Predicting individual differences from music-induced movement, by Yudhik Agrawal and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Petri Toiviainen Vinoo Alluri export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
