<!-- source_type: articles -->
# AudioVMAF: Audio Quality Prediction with VMAF

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.03437v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:53.195324+00:00

## Notes

[2308.03437v1] AudioVMAF: Audio Quality Prediction with VMAF Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2308.03437v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2308.03437v1 (eess) [Submitted on 7 Aug 2023] Title: AudioVMAF: Audio Quality Prediction with VMAF Authors: Arijit Biswas , Harald Mundt View a PDF of the paper titled AudioVMAF: Audio Quality Prediction with VMAF, by Arijit Biswas and Harald Mundt View PDF Abstract: Video Multimethod Assessment Fusion (VMAF) [1], [2], [3] is a popular tool in the industry for measuring coded video quality. In this study, we propose an auditory-inspired frontend in existing VMAF for creating videos of reference and coded spectrograms, and extended VMAF for measuring coded audio quality. We name our system AudioVMAF. We demonstrate that image replication is capable of further enhancing prediction accuracy, especially when band-limited anchors are present. The proposed method significantly outperforms all existing visual quality features repurposed for audio, and even demonstrates a significant overall improvement of 7.8% and 2.0% of Pearson and Spearman rank correlation coefficient, respectively, over a dedicated audio quality metric (ViSQOL-v3 [4]) also inspired from the image domain. Comments: Accepted to 155th Audio Engineering Society (AES), New York, NY, USA, October 2023 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2308.03437 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2308.03437v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.03437 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Arijit Biswas [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 7 Aug 2023 09:37:42 UTC (1,065 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled AudioVMAF: Audio Quality Prediction with VMAF, by Arijit Biswas and Harald Mundt View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
