<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Deep Watershed Detector for Music Object Recognition

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.10548v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:03.877028+00:00

## Notes

[1805.10548v1] Deep Watershed Detector for Music Object Recognition Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1805.10548v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition arXiv:1805.10548v1 (cs) [Submitted on 26 May 2018] Title: Deep Watershed Detector for Music Object Recognition Authors: Lukas Tuggener , Ismail Elezi , Jurgen Schmidhuber , Thilo Stadelmann View a PDF of the paper titled Deep Watershed Detector for Music Object Recognition, by Lukas Tuggener and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Optical Music Recognition (OMR) is an important and challenging area within music information retrieval, the accurate detection of music symbols in digital images is a core functionality of any OMR pipeline. In this paper, we introduce a novel object detection method, based on synthetic energy maps and the watershed transform, called Deep Watershed Detector (DWD). Our method is specifically tailored to deal with high resolution images that contain a large number of very small objects and is therefore able to process full pages of written music. We present state-of-the-art detection results of common music symbols and show DWD's ability to work with synthetic scores equally well as on handwritten music. Comments: Accepted on The 19th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference 2018 Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI) Cite as: arXiv:1805.10548 [cs.CV] (or arXiv:1805.10548v1 [cs.CV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1805.10548 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ismail Elezi [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 26 May 2018 22:13:16 UTC (1,075 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Deep Watershed Detector for Music Object Recognition, by Lukas Tuggener and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CV < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Lukas Tuggener Ismail Elezi Jürgen Schmidhuber Thilo Stadelmann export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
