<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A variational autoencoder for music generation controlled by tonal tension

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2010.06230v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:10.046003+00:00

## Notes

[2010.06230v2] A variational autoencoder for music generation controlled by tonal tension Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2010.06230v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2010.06230v2 (cs) [Submitted on 13 Oct 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 14 Oct 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: A variational autoencoder for music generation controlled by tonal tension Authors: Rui Guo , Ivor Simpson , Thor Magnusson , Chris Kiefer , Dorien Herremans View a PDF of the paper titled A variational autoencoder for music generation controlled by tonal tension, by Rui Guo and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Many of the music generation systems based on neural networks are fully autonomous and do not offer control over the generation process. In this research, we present a controllable music generation system in terms of tonal tension. We incorporate two tonal tension measures based on the Spiral Array Tension theory into a variational autoencoder model. This allows us to control the direction of the tonal tension throughout the generated piece, as well as the overall level of tonal tension. Given a seed musical fragment, stemming from either the user input or from directly sampling from the latent space, the model can generate variations of this original seed fragment with altered tonal tension. This altered music still resembles the seed music rhythmically, but the pitch of the notes are changed to match the desired tonal tension as conditioned by the user. Comments: 2020 Joint Conference on AI Music Creativity Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2010.06230 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2010.06230v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2010.06230 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Rui Guo [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 13 Oct 2020 08:37:22 UTC (781 KB) [v2] Wed, 14 Oct 2020 08:24:25 UTC (781 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A variational autoencoder for music generation controlled by tonal tension, by Rui Guo and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.SC eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Rui Guo Ivor Simpson Dorien Herremans export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
