<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Statistical Analysis Plan for Primary and Selected Secondary Health Endpoints of the SEARCH-Youth Study

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.02771v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:12.567616+00:00

## Notes

[2211.02771v1] Statistical Analysis Plan for Primary and Selected Secondary Health Endpoints of the SEARCH-Youth Study Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > stat > arXiv:2211.02771v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Statistics > Applications arXiv:2211.02771v1 (stat) [Submitted on 4 Nov 2022] Title: Statistical Analysis Plan for Primary and Selected Secondary Health Endpoints of the SEARCH-Youth Study Authors: Laura B. Balzer , Theodore Ruel , Diane V. Havlir , the SEARCH-Youth Study Team View a PDF of the paper titled Statistical Analysis Plan for Primary and Selected Secondary Health Endpoints of the SEARCH-Youth Study, by Laura B. Balzer and Theodore Ruel and Diane V. Havlir and the SEARCH-Youth Study Team View PDF Abstract: This document provides the statistical analytic plan (SAP) for evaluating health outcomes in the SEARCH-Youth study, a cluster randomized trial designed to evaluate the effect of a combination intervention on HIV viral suppression among adolescents and young adults with HIV in rural Uganda and Kenya ( this http URL : NCT03848728). The SAP was locked prior to unblinding and effect estimation. This SAP was embargoed until November 04, 2022 when it was submitted to arXiv. Comments: 14 pages, 1 figure Subjects: Applications (stat.AP) Cite as: arXiv:2211.02771 [stat.AP] (or arXiv:2211.02771v1 [stat.AP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2211.02771 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Laura Balzer PhD [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 4 Nov 2022 22:20:58 UTC (153 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Statistical Analysis Plan for Primary and Selected Secondary Health Endpoints of the SEARCH-Youth Study, by Laura B. Balzer and Theodore Ruel and Diane V. Havlir and the SEARCH-Youth Study Team View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: stat.AP < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-11 Change to browse by: stat References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
