<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Unsupervised Estimation of Nonlinear Audio Effects: Comparing Diffusion-Based and Adversarial approaches

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.04751v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:00.603308+00:00

## Notes

[2504.04751v2] Unsupervised Estimation of Nonlinear Audio Effects: Comparing Diffusion-Based and Adversarial approaches Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2504.04751v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2504.04751v2 (eess) [Submitted on 7 Apr 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 24 Sep 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Unsupervised Estimation of Nonlinear Audio Effects: Comparing Diffusion-Based and Adversarial approaches Authors: Eloi Moliner , Michal Švento , Alec Wright , Lauri Juvela , Pavel Rajmic , Vesa Välimäki View a PDF of the paper titled Unsupervised Estimation of Nonlinear Audio Effects: Comparing Diffusion-Based and Adversarial approaches, by Eloi Moliner and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Accurately estimating nonlinear audio effects without access to paired input-output signals remains a challenging problem. This work studies unsupervised probabilistic approaches for solving this task. We introduce a method, novel for this application, based on diffusion generative models for blind system identification, enabling the estimation of unknown nonlinear effects using black- and gray-box models. This study compares this method with a previously proposed adversarial approach, analyzing the performance of both methods under different parameterizations of the effect operator and varying lengths of available effected recordings. Through experiments on guitar distortion effects, we show that the diffusion-based approach provides more stable results and is less sensitive to data availability, while the adversarial approach is superior at estimating more pronounced distortion effects. Our findings contribute to the robust unsupervised blind estimation of audio effects, demonstrating the potential of diffusion models for system identification in music technology. Comments: Accepted to the 28th International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (DAFx25) Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI) Cite as: arXiv:2504.04751 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2504.04751v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.04751 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Michal Švento [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 7 Apr 2025 05:56:51 UTC (157 KB) [v2] Wed, 24 Sep 2025 09:51:38 UTC (154 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Unsupervised Estimation of Nonlinear Audio Effects: Comparing Diffusion-Based and Adversarial approaches, by Eloi Moliner and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
