<!-- source_type: articles -->
# An Improved Measure of Musical Noise Based on Spectral Kurtosis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2105.13079v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:16.744733+00:00

## Notes

[2105.13079v1] An Improved Measure of Musical Noise Based on Spectral Kurtosis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2105.13079v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2105.13079v1 (eess) [Submitted on 27 May 2021] Title: An Improved Measure of Musical Noise Based on Spectral Kurtosis Authors: Matteo Torcoli View a PDF of the paper titled An Improved Measure of Musical Noise Based on Spectral Kurtosis, by Matteo Torcoli View PDF Abstract: Audio processing methods operating on a time-frequency representation of the signal can introduce unpleasant sounding artifacts known as musical noise. These artifacts are observed in the context of audio coding, speech enhancement, and source separation. The change in kurtosis of the power spectrum introduced during the processing was shown to correlate with the human perception of musical noise in the context of speech enhancement, leading to the proposal of measures based on it. These baseline measures are here shown to correlate with human perception only in a limited manner. As ground truth for the human perception, the results from two listening tests are considered: one involving audio coding and one involving source separation. Simple but effective perceptually motivated improvements are proposed and the resulting new measure is shown to clearly outperform the baselines in terms of correlation with the results of both listening tests. Moreover, with respect to the listening test on musical noise in audio coding, the exhibited correlation is nearly as good as the one exhibited by the Artifact-related Perceptual Score (APS), which was found to be the best objective measure for this task. The APS is however computationally very expensive. The proposed measure is easily computed, requiring only a fraction of the computational cost of the APS. Comments: Manuscript accepted for the 2019 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2105.13079 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2105.13079v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2105.13079 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 2019 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA), 2019, pp. 90-94 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/WASPAA.2019.8937195 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Matteo Torcoli [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 27 May 2021 12:03:52 UTC (641 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled An Improved Measure of Musical Noise Based on Spectral Kurtosis, by Matteo Torcoli View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
