<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Music-robust Automatic Lyrics Transcription of Polyphonic Music

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2204.03306v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:06.851469+00:00

## Notes

[2204.03306v2] Music-robust Automatic Lyrics Transcription of Polyphonic Music Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2204.03306v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2204.03306v2 (eess) [Submitted on 7 Apr 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 22 Apr 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Music-robust Automatic Lyrics Transcription of Polyphonic Music Authors: Xiaoxue Gao , Chitralekha Gupta , Haizhou Li View a PDF of the paper titled Music-robust Automatic Lyrics Transcription of Polyphonic Music, by Xiaoxue Gao and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Lyrics transcription of polyphonic music is challenging because singing vocals are corrupted by the background music. To improve the robustness of lyrics transcription to the background music, we propose a strategy of combining the features that emphasize the singing vocals, i.e. music-removed features that represent singing vocal extracted features, and the features that capture the singing vocals as well as the background music, i.e. music-present features. We show that these two sets of features complement each other, and their combination performs better than when they are used alone, thus improving the robustness of the acoustic model to the background music. Furthermore, language model interpolation between a general-purpose language model and an in-domain lyrics-specific language model provides further improvement in transcription results. Our experiments show that our proposed strategy outperforms the existing lyrics transcription systems for polyphonic music. Moreover, we find that our proposed music-robust features specially improve the lyrics transcription performance in metal genre of songs, where the background music is loud and dominant. Comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, accepted by 2022 Sound and Music Computing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2204.03306 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2204.03306v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2204.03306 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Xiaoxue Gao [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 7 Apr 2022 09:14:58 UTC (118 KB) [v2] Fri, 22 Apr 2022 12:06:57 UTC (118 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Music-robust Automatic Lyrics Transcription of Polyphonic Music, by Xiaoxue Gao and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-04 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
