<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Music Mixing Style Transfer: A Contrastive Learning Approach to Disentangle Audio Effects

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.02247v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:20.765598+00:00

## Notes

[2211.02247v3] Music Mixing Style Transfer: A Contrastive Learning Approach to Disentangle Audio Effects Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2211.02247v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2211.02247v3 (eess) [Submitted on 4 Nov 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 11 Apr 2023 (this version, v3)] Title: Music Mixing Style Transfer: A Contrastive Learning Approach to Disentangle Audio Effects Authors: Junghyun Koo , Marco A. Martínez-Ramírez , Wei-Hsiang Liao , Stefan Uhlich , Kyogu Lee , Yuki Mitsufuji View a PDF of the paper titled Music Mixing Style Transfer: A Contrastive Learning Approach to Disentangle Audio Effects, by Junghyun Koo and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: We propose an end-to-end music mixing style transfer system that converts the mixing style of an input multitrack to that of a reference song. This is achieved with an encoder pre-trained with a contrastive objective to extract only audio effects related information from a reference music recording. All our models are trained in a self-supervised manner from an already-processed wet multitrack dataset with an effective data preprocessing method that alleviates the data scarcity of obtaining unprocessed dry data. We analyze the proposed encoder for the disentanglement capability of audio effects and also validate its performance for mixing style transfer through both objective and subjective evaluations. From the results, we show the proposed system not only converts the mixing style of multitrack audio close to a reference but is also robust with mixture-wise style transfer upon using a music source separation model. Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2211.02247 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2211.02247v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2211.02247 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Junghyun (Tony) Koo [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 4 Nov 2022 03:45:17 UTC (2,392 KB) [v2] Tue, 14 Mar 2023 05:24:20 UTC (2,392 KB) [v3] Tue, 11 Apr 2023 07:53:14 UTC (2,392 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Music Mixing Style Transfer: A Contrastive Learning Approach to Disentangle Audio Effects, by Junghyun Koo and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
