<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Training neural audio classifiers with few data

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.10274v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:37.396049+00:00

## Notes

[1810.10274v3] Training neural audio classifiers with few data Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1810.10274v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1810.10274v3 (cs) [Submitted on 24 Oct 2018 ( v1 ), last revised 3 Nov 2018 (this version, v3)] Title: Training neural audio classifiers with few data Authors: Jordi Pons , Joan Serrà , Xavier Serra View a PDF of the paper titled Training neural audio classifiers with few data, by Jordi Pons and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: We investigate supervised learning strategies that improve the training of neural network audio classifiers on small annotated collections. In particular, we study whether (i) a naive regularization of the solution space, (ii) prototypical networks, (iii) transfer learning, or (iv) their combination, can foster deep learning models to better leverage a small amount of training examples. To this end, we evaluate (i-iv) for the tasks of acoustic event recognition and acoustic scene classification, considering from 1 to 100 labeled examples per class. Results indicate that transfer learning is a powerful strategy in such scenarios, but prototypical networks show promising results when one does not count with external or validation data. Comments: Code: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1810.10274 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1810.10274v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1810.10274 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jordi Pons M.Sc. [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 24 Oct 2018 09:59:17 UTC (148 KB) [v2] Sun, 28 Oct 2018 21:03:52 UTC (351 KB) [v3] Sat, 3 Nov 2018 16:42:07 UTC (387 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Training neural audio classifiers with few data, by Jordi Pons and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Jordi Pons Joan Serrà Xavier Serra export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
