<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Fast Timing-Conditioned Latent Audio Diffusion

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04825v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:11.967657+00:00

## Notes

[2402.04825v3] Fast Timing-Conditioned Latent Audio Diffusion Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2402.04825v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2402.04825v3 (cs) [Submitted on 7 Feb 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 13 May 2024 (this version, v3)] Title: Fast Timing-Conditioned Latent Audio Diffusion Authors: Zach Evans , CJ Carr , Josiah Taylor , Scott H. Hawley , Jordi Pons View a PDF of the paper titled Fast Timing-Conditioned Latent Audio Diffusion, by Zach Evans and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Generating long-form 44.1kHz stereo audio from text prompts can be computationally demanding. Further, most previous works do not tackle that music and sound effects naturally vary in their duration. Our research focuses on the efficient generation of long-form, variable-length stereo music and sounds at 44.1kHz using text prompts with a generative model. Stable Audio is based on latent diffusion, with its latent defined by a fully-convolutional variational autoencoder. It is conditioned on text prompts as well as timing embeddings, allowing for fine control over both the content and length of the generated music and sounds. Stable Audio is capable of rendering stereo signals of up to 95 sec at 44.1kHz in 8 sec on an A100 GPU. Despite its compute efficiency and fast inference, it is one of the best in two public text-to-music and -audio benchmarks and, differently from state-of-the-art models, can generate music with structure and stereo sounds. Comments: Accepted to ICML 2024. Code: this https URL . Metrics: this https URL . Demo: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2402.04825 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2402.04825v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.04825 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jordi Pons [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 13:23:25 UTC (547 KB) [v2] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 06:26:54 UTC (547 KB) [v3] Mon, 13 May 2024 14:05:00 UTC (562 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Fast Timing-Conditioned Latent Audio Diffusion, by Zach Evans and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
