<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Distributed Signal Processing for Extremely Large-Scale Antenna Array Systems: State-of-the-Art and Future Directions

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16121v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:24.710106+00:00

## Notes

[2407.16121v2] Distributed Signal Processing for Extremely Large-Scale Antenna Array Systems: State-of-the-Art and Future Directions Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2407.16121v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:2407.16121v2 (cs) [Submitted on 23 Jul 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 7 Feb 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Distributed Signal Processing for Extremely Large-Scale Antenna Array Systems: State-of-the-Art and Future Directions Authors: Yanqing Xu , Erik G. Larsson , Eduard A. Jorswieck , Xiao Li , Shi Jin , Tsung-Hui Chang View a PDF of the paper titled Distributed Signal Processing for Extremely Large-Scale Antenna Array Systems: State-of-the-Art and Future Directions, by Yanqing Xu and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Extremely large-scale antenna arrays (ELAA) play a critical role in enabling the functionalities of next generation wireless communication systems. However, as the number of antennas increases, ELAA systems face significant bottlenecks, such as excessive interconnection costs and high computational complexity. Efficient distributed signal processing (SP) algorithms show great promise in overcoming these challenges. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive overview of distributed SP algorithms for ELAA systems, tailored to address these bottlenecks. We start by presenting three representative forms of ELAA systems: single-base station ELAA systems, coordinated distributed antenna systems, and ELAA systems integrated with emerging technologies. For each form, we review the associated distributed SP algorithms in the literature. Additionally, we outline several important future research directions that are essential for improving the performance and practicality of ELAA systems. Comments: Accepted by IEEE JSTSP special issue on "Distributed Signal Processing for Extremely Large-Scale Antenna Array Systems" Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) ; Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2407.16121 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:2407.16121v2 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.16121 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Yanqing Xu [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 23 Jul 2024 02:04:10 UTC (1,210 KB) [v2] Fri, 7 Feb 2025 02:50:06 UTC (1,650 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Distributed Signal Processing for Extremely Large-Scale Antenna Array Systems: State-of-the-Art and Future Directions, by Yanqing Xu and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-07 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.SP math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
