<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Music SketchNet: Controllable Music Generation via Factorized Representations of Pitch and Rhythm

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2008.01291v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:35.336103+00:00

## Notes

[2008.01291v1] Music SketchNet: Controllable Music Generation via Factorized Representations of Pitch and Rhythm Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2008.01291v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2008.01291v1 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Aug 2020] Title: Music SketchNet: Controllable Music Generation via Factorized Representations of Pitch and Rhythm Authors: Ke Chen , Cheng-i Wang , Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick , Shlomo Dubnov View a PDF of the paper titled Music SketchNet: Controllable Music Generation via Factorized Representations of Pitch and Rhythm, by Ke Chen and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Drawing an analogy with automatic image completion systems, we propose Music SketchNet, a neural network framework that allows users to specify partial musical ideas guiding automatic music generation. We focus on generating the missing measures in incomplete monophonic musical pieces, conditioned on surrounding context, and optionally guided by user-specified pitch and rhythm snippets. First, we introduce SketchVAE, a novel variational autoencoder that explicitly factorizes rhythm and pitch contour to form the basis of our proposed model. Then we introduce two discriminative architectures, SketchInpainter and SketchConnector, that in conjunction perform the guided music completion, filling in representations for the missing measures conditioned on surrounding context and user-specified snippets. We evaluate SketchNet on a standard dataset of Irish folk music and compare with models from recent works. When used for music completion, our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art both in terms of objective metrics and subjective listening tests. Finally, we demonstrate that our model can successfully incorporate user-specified snippets during the generation process. Comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, Proceedings of the 21st International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, ISMIR 2020 Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:2008.01291 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2008.01291v1 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2008.01291 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 21st International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, ISMIR 2020 Submission history From: Ke Chen [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 4 Aug 2020 02:49:57 UTC (1,428 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Music SketchNet: Controllable Music Generation via Factorized Representations of Pitch and Rhythm, by Ke Chen and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM cs.SD eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Ke Chen Cheng-i Wang Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick Shlomo Dubnov export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
