<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Community-Aware Graph Signal Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2008.10375v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:35.810918+00:00

## Notes

[2008.10375v1] Community-Aware Graph Signal Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2008.10375v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2008.10375v1 (eess) [Submitted on 24 Aug 2020] Title: Community-Aware Graph Signal Processing Authors: Miljan Petrovic , Raphael Liegeois , Thomas A. W. Bolton , Dimitri Van De Ville View a PDF of the paper titled Community-Aware Graph Signal Processing, by Miljan Petrovic and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: The emerging field of graph signal processing (GSP) allows to transpose classical signal processing operations (e.g., filtering) to signals on graphs. The GSP framework is generally built upon the graph Laplacian, which plays a crucial role to study graph properties and measure graph signal smoothness. Here instead, we propose the graph modularity matrix as the centerpiece of GSP, in order to incorporate knowledge about graph community structure when processing signals on the graph, but without the need for community detection. We study this approach in several generic settings such as filtering, optimal sampling and reconstruction, surrogate data generation, and denoising. Feasibility is illustrated by a small-scale example and a transportation network dataset, as well as one application in human neuroimaging where community-aware GSP reveals relationships between behavior and brain features that are not shown by Laplacian-based GSP. This work demonstrates how concepts from network science can lead to new meaningful operations on graph signals. Comments: 21 pages, 4 figures, Accepted to Signal Processing Magazine: Special Issue on Graph Signal Processing: Foundations and Emerging Directions Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2008.10375 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2008.10375v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2008.10375 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2020.3018087 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Miljan Petrović [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 24 Aug 2020 12:35:59 UTC (4,449 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Community-Aware Graph Signal Processing, by Miljan Petrovic and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-08 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
