<!-- source_type: articles -->
# GlobalMood: A cross-cultural benchmark for music emotion recognition

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09539v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:01.786585+00:00

## Notes

[2505.09539v2] GlobalMood: A cross-cultural benchmark for music emotion recognition Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2505.09539v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Retrieval arXiv:2505.09539v2 (cs) [Submitted on 14 May 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 28 Jun 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: GlobalMood: A cross-cultural benchmark for music emotion recognition Authors: Harin Lee , Elif Çelen , Peter Harrison , Manuel Anglada-Tort , Pol van Rijn , Minsu Park , Marc Schönwiesner , Nori Jacoby View a PDF of the paper titled GlobalMood: A cross-cultural benchmark for music emotion recognition, by Harin Lee and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Human annotations of mood in music are essential for music generation and recommender systems. However, existing datasets predominantly focus on Western songs with terms derived from English, which may limit generalizability across diverse linguistic and cultural backgrounds. We introduce 'GlobalMood', a novel cross-cultural benchmark dataset comprising 1,180 songs sampled from 59 countries, with large-scale annotations collected from 2,519 individuals across five culturally and linguistically distinct locations: U.S., France, Mexico, S. Korea, and Egypt. Rather than imposing predefined emotion and mood categories, we implement a bottom-up, participant-driven approach to organically elicit culturally specific music-related emotion terms. We then recruit another pool of human participants to collect 988,925 ratings for these culture-specific descriptors. Our analysis confirms the presence of a valence-arousal structure shared across cultures, yet also reveals significant divergences in how certain emotion terms (despite being dictionary equivalents) are perceived cross-culturally. State-of-the-art multimodal models benefit substantially from fine-tuning on our cross-culturally balanced dataset, particularly in non-English contexts. Broadly, our findings inform the ongoing debate on the universality versus cultural specificity of emotional descriptors, and our methodology can contribute to other multimodal and cross-lingual research. Comments: To be presented at International Society of Music Information Retrieval (ISMIR) Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR) Cite as: arXiv:2505.09539 [cs.IR] (or arXiv:2505.09539v2 [cs.IR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.09539 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR), 2025 Submission history From: Harin Lee [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 14 May 2025 16:32:45 UTC (1,802 KB) [v2] Sat, 28 Jun 2025 15:18:03 UTC (1,885 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled GlobalMood: A cross-cultural benchmark for music emotion recognition, by Harin Lee and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IR < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-05 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
