<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Evaluating Interval-based Tokenization for Pitch Representation in Symbolic Music Analysis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04630v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:41.743783+00:00

## Notes

[2501.04630v1] Evaluating Interval-based Tokenization for Pitch Representation in Symbolic Music Analysis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2501.04630v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Retrieval arXiv:2501.04630v1 (cs) [Submitted on 8 Jan 2025] Title: Evaluating Interval-based Tokenization for Pitch Representation in Symbolic Music Analysis Authors: Dinh-Viet-Toan Le , Louis Bigo , Mikaela Keller View a PDF of the paper titled Evaluating Interval-based Tokenization for Pitch Representation in Symbolic Music Analysis, by Dinh-Viet-Toan Le and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Symbolic music analysis tasks are often performed by models originally developed for Natural Language Processing, such as Transformers. Such models require the input data to be represented as sequences, which is achieved through a process of tokenization. Tokenization strategies for symbolic music often rely on absolute MIDI values to represent pitch information. However, music research largely promotes the benefit of higher-level representations such as melodic contour and harmonic relations for which pitch intervals turn out to be more expressive than absolute pitches. In this work, we introduce a general framework for building interval-based tokenizations. By evaluating these tokenizations on three music analysis tasks, we show that such interval-based tokenizations improve model performances and facilitate their explainability. Comments: Accepted at Artificial Intelligence for Music Workshop at AAAI 2025 ( this https URL ) Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2501.04630 [cs.IR] (or arXiv:2501.04630v1 [cs.IR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2501.04630 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Dinh-Viet-Toan Le [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 8 Jan 2025 17:22:03 UTC (269 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Evaluating Interval-based Tokenization for Pitch Representation in Symbolic Music Analysis, by Dinh-Viet-Toan Le and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IR < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
