<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Topological Signal Processing over Generalized Cell Complexes

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2201.08993v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:48.660582+00:00

## Notes

[2201.08993v2] Topological Signal Processing over Generalized Cell Complexes Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2201.08993v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2201.08993v2 (eess) [Submitted on 22 Jan 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Oct 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Topological Signal Processing over Generalized Cell Complexes Authors: Stefania Sardellitti , Sergio Barbarossa View a PDF of the paper titled Topological Signal Processing over Generalized Cell Complexes, by Stefania Sardellitti and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Topological Signal Processing (TSP) over simplicial complexes is a framework that has been recently proposed, as a generalization of graph signal processing (GSP), to extend GSP to analyzing signals defined over sets of any order (i.e., not only vertices of a graph) and to capture multiway relations of any order among the data. However, simplicial complexes are required to satisfy the so-called inclusion property, according to which, if a set belongs to the complex, then all its subsets must also belong to the complex. In some applications, this is a severe limitation. To overcome this limit, in this paper we extend TSP to deal with signals defined over cell complexes and we also generalize the concept of cell complexes to include hollow cells. We show that, even if the algebraic formulation does not change significantly, the extension to the generalized cell complexes considerably broadens the number of applications. Most important, the new representation provides a much better trade-off between the complexity of the representation and its accuracy. In addition, we propose a method to infer the structure of the cell complex from data and we propose distributed filtering strategies, including a method to retrieve the sparsest representation of the harmonic component. We quantify the advantages of using cell complexes instead of simplicial complexes, in terms of the complexity/accuracy trade-off, for different applications such image segmentation and recovering of real flows measured on data traffic and transportation networks. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, October 2023 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2201.08993 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2201.08993v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2201.08993 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Stefania Sardellitti [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 22 Jan 2022 08:29:39 UTC (729 KB) [v2] Sun, 8 Oct 2023 19:38:26 UTC (535 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Topological Signal Processing over Generalized Cell Complexes, by Stefania Sardellitti and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-01 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
