<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Algebraic Signal Processing Theory

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0612077v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:42.518272+00:00

## Notes

[cs/0612077v2] Algebraic Signal Processing Theory Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:cs/0612077v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:cs/0612077v2 (cs) [Submitted on 15 Dec 2006 ( v1 ), last revised 14 Nov 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: Algebraic Signal Processing Theory Authors: Markus Püschel , José M. F. Moura View a PDF of the paper titled Algebraic Signal Processing Theory, by Markus P\"uschel and Jos\'e M. F. Moura View PDF Abstract: This paper presents an algebraic theory of linear signal processing. At the core of algebraic signal processing is the concept of a linear signal model defined as a triple (A, M, phi), where familiar concepts like the filter space and the signal space are cast as an algebra A and a module M, respectively, and phi generalizes the concept of the z-transform to bijective linear mappings from a vector space of, e.g., signal samples, into the module M. A signal model provides the structure for a particular linear signal processing application, such as infinite and finite discrete time, or infinite or finite discrete space, or the various forms of multidimensional linear signal processing. As soon as a signal model is chosen, basic ingredients follow, including the associated notions of filtering, spectrum, and Fourier transform. The shift operator is a key concept in the algebraic theory: it is the generator of the algebra of filters A. Once the shift is chosen, a well-defined methodology leads to the associated signal model. Different shifts correspond to infinite and finite time models with associated infinite and finite z-transforms, and to infinite and finite space models with associated infinite and finite C-transforms (that we introduce). In particular, we show that the 16 discrete cosine and sine transforms are Fourier transforms for the finite space models. Other definitions of the shift naturally lead to new signal models and to new transforms as associated Fourier transforms in one and higher dimensions, separable and non-separable. We explain in algebraic terms shift-invariance (the algebra of filters A is commutative), the role of boundary conditions and signal extensions, the connections between linear transforms and linear finite Gauss-Markov fields, and several other concepts and connections. Comments: 67 pages. Parts have been published in updated form as shown below. Section XV contains initial ideas for discrete signal processing on graphs. See also this https URL and newer work in this https URL Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) ACM classes: E.4 Cite as: arXiv:cs/0612077 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:cs/0612077v2 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.cs/0612077 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Algebraic Signal Processing Theory: Foundation and 1-D Time & Algebraic Signal Processing Theory: 1-D Space, both IEEE Trans. SP, 56(8), 2008; Algebraic Signal Processing Theory: 1-D Nearest-Neighbor Models in IEEE Trans. SP, 60(5), 2012 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2008.925261%3B https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2008.925259%3B https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2012.2186133 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Markus Püschel [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 15 Dec 2006 20:01:11 UTC (784 KB) [v2] Thu, 14 Nov 2019 15:24:51 UTC (490 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Algebraic Signal Processing Theory, by Markus P\"uschel and Jos\'e M. F. Moura View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2006-12 References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 1 blog link ( what is this? ) DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Markus Püschel José M. F. Moura export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
