<!-- source_type: articles -->
# YY Filter - A Paradigm of Digital Signal Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1308.3302v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:20.396579+00:00

## Notes

[1308.3302v1] YY Filter - A Paradigm of Digital Signal Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1308.3302v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1308.3302v1 (cs) [Submitted on 15 Aug 2013] Title: YY Filter - A Paradigm of Digital Signal Processing Authors: Masaaki Nagahara View a PDF of the paper titled YY Filter - A Paradigm of Digital Signal Processing, by Masaaki Nagahara View PDF Abstract: YY filter, named after the founder Prof. Yutaka Yamamoto, is a digital filter designed by sampled-data control theory, which can optimize the analog performance of the signal processing system with AD/DA converters. This article discusses problems in conventional signal processing and introduces advantages of the YY filter. Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) ; Systems and Control (eess.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC) Cite as: arXiv:1308.3302 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1308.3302v1 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1308.3302 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Perspectives in Mathematical System Theory, Control, and Signal Processing, pp. 331-340, Springer, 2010 Submission history From: Masaaki Nagahara [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 15 Aug 2013 04:47:23 UTC (15 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled YY Filter - A Paradigm of Digital Signal Processing, by Masaaki Nagahara View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2013-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.SY math math.IT math.OC References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Masaaki Nagahara export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
