<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Quantum Natural Language Processing Approach to Musical Intelligence

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2111.06741v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:51.958768+00:00

## Notes

[2111.06741v2] A Quantum Natural Language Processing Approach to Musical Intelligence Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > quant-ph > arXiv:2111.06741v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Quantum Physics arXiv:2111.06741v2 (quant-ph) [Submitted on 10 Nov 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Dec 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: A Quantum Natural Language Processing Approach to Musical Intelligence Authors: Eduardo Reck Miranda , Richie Yeung , Anna Pearson , Konstantinos Meichanetzidis , Bob Coecke View a PDF of the paper titled A Quantum Natural Language Processing Approach to Musical Intelligence, by Eduardo Reck Miranda and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: There has been tremendous progress in Artificial Intelligence (AI) for music, in particular for musical composition and access to large databases for commercialisation through the Internet. We are interested in further advancing this field, focusing on composition. In contrast to current black-box AI methods, we are championing an interpretable compositional outlook on generative music systems. In particular, we are importing methods from the Distributional Compositional Categorical (DisCoCat) modelling framework for Natural Language Processing (NLP), motivated by musical grammars. Quantum computing is a nascent technology, which is very likely to impact the music industry in time to come. Thus, we are pioneering a Quantum Natural Language Processing (QNLP) approach to develop a new generation of intelligent musical systems. This work follows from previous experimental implementations of DisCoCat linguistic models on quantum hardware. In this chapter, we present Quanthoven, the first proof-of-concept ever built, which (a) demonstrates that it is possible to program a quantum computer to learn to classify music that conveys different meanings and (b) illustrates how such a capability might be leveraged to develop a system to compose meaningful pieces of music. After a discussion about our current understanding of music as a communication medium and its relationship to natural language, the chapter focuses on the techniques developed to (a) encode musical compositions as quantum circuits, and (b) design a quantum classifier. The chapter ends with demonstrations of compositions created with the system. Comments: Pre-publication draft of a chapter to appear in Quantum Computer Music, E. R. Miranda (Ed.) Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI) Cite as: arXiv:2111.06741 [quant-ph] (or arXiv:2111.06741v2 [quant-ph] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2111.06741 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Eduardo R. Miranda Prof [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 10 Nov 2021 12:35:07 UTC (10,905 KB) [v2] Thu, 9 Dec 2021 13:11:14 UTC (10,903 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Quantum Natural Language Processing Approach to Musical Intelligence, by Eduardo Reck Miranda and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: quant-ph < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI References & Citations INSPIRE HEP NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
