<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Masked Spectrogram Modeling using Masked Autoencoders for Learning General-purpose Audio Representation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2204.12260v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:20.035623+00:00

## Notes

[2204.12260v1] Masked Spectrogram Modeling using Masked Autoencoders for Learning General-purpose Audio Representation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2204.12260v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2204.12260v1 (eess) [Submitted on 26 Apr 2022] Title: Masked Spectrogram Modeling using Masked Autoencoders for Learning General-purpose Audio Representation Authors: Daisuke Niizumi , Daiki Takeuchi , Yasunori Ohishi , Noboru Harada , Kunio Kashino View a PDF of the paper titled Masked Spectrogram Modeling using Masked Autoencoders for Learning General-purpose Audio Representation, by Daisuke Niizumi and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Recent general-purpose audio representations show state-of-the-art performance on various audio tasks. These representations are pre-trained by self-supervised learning methods that create training signals from the input. For example, typical audio contrastive learning uses temporal relationships among input sounds to create training signals, whereas some methods use a difference among input views created by data augmentations. However, these training signals do not provide information derived from the intact input sound, which we think is suboptimal for learning representation that describes the input as it is. In this paper, we seek to learn audio representations from the input itself as supervision using a pretext task of auto-encoding of masked spectrogram patches, Masked Spectrogram Modeling (MSM, a variant of Masked Image Modeling applied to audio spectrogram). To implement MSM, we use Masked Autoencoders (MAE), an image self-supervised learning method. MAE learns to efficiently encode the small number of visible patches into latent representations to carry essential information for reconstructing a large number of masked patches. While training, MAE minimizes the reconstruction error, which uses the input as training signal, consequently achieving our goal. We conducted experiments on our MSM using MAE (MSM-MAE) models under the evaluation benchmark of the HEAR 2021 NeurIPS Challenge. Our MSM-MAE models outperformed the HEAR 2021 Challenge results on seven out of 15 tasks (e.g., accuracies of 73.4% on CREMA-D and 85.8% on LibriCount), while showing top performance on other tasks where specialized models perform better. We also investigate how the design choices of MSM-MAE impact the performance and conduct qualitative analysis of visualization outcomes to gain an understanding of learned representations. We make our code available online. Comments: 22 pages, 8 figures. Under the review process Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) MSC classes: 68T07 Cite as: arXiv:2204.12260 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2204.12260v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2204.12260 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: HEAR: Holistic Evaluation of Audio Representations (NeurIPS 2021 Competition) PMLR 166 (2022) 1-24 Submission history From: Daisuke Niizumi [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 26 Apr 2022 12:32:10 UTC (5,557 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Masked Spectrogram Modeling using Masked Autoencoders for Learning General-purpose Audio Representation, by Daisuke Niizumi and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
