<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Ordered Sequence Detection and Barrier Signal Design for Digital Pulse Interval Modulation in Optical Wireless Communications

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1804.04431v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:19.096874+00:00

## Notes

[1804.04431v2] Ordered Sequence Detection and Barrier Signal Design for Digital Pulse Interval Modulation in Optical Wireless Communications Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1804.04431v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1804.04431v2 (eess) [Submitted on 12 Apr 2018 ( v1 ), last revised 26 Dec 2018 (this version, v2)] Title: Ordered Sequence Detection and Barrier Signal Design for Digital Pulse Interval Modulation in Optical Wireless Communications Authors: Shuaishuai Guo , Ki-Hong Park , Mohamed-Slim Alouini View a PDF of the paper titled Ordered Sequence Detection and Barrier Signal Design for Digital Pulse Interval Modulation in Optical Wireless Communications, by Shuaishuai Guo and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper proposes an ordered sequence detection (OSD) for digital pulse interval modulation (DPIM) in optical wireless communications. Leveraging the sparsity of DPIM sequences, OSD shows comparable performance to the optimal maximum likelihood sequence detection (MLSD) with much lower complexity. Compared with the widely adopted sample-by-sample optimal threshold detection (OTD), it considerably improves the bit error rate (BER) performance by mitigating error propagation. Moreover, this paper proposes a barrier signal-aided digital pulse interval modulation (BDPIM), where the last of every $K$ symbols is allocated with more power as an inserted barrier signal. BDPIM with OSD (BDPIM-OSD) can limit the error propagation between two adjacent barriers. To reduce the storing delay when using OSD to detect extremely large packets, we propose BDPIM with a combination of OTD and OSD (BDPIM-OTD-OSD), within which long sequences are cut into pieces and separately detected. Approximate upper bounds of the average BER performance of DPIM-OTD, DPIM-OSD, BDPIM-OSD and BDPIM-OTD-OSD are analyzed. Simulations are conducted to corroborate our analysis. Optimal parameter settings are also investigated in uncoded and coded systems by simulations. Simulation results show that the proposed OSD and BDPIM bring significant improvement in uncoded and coded systems over various channels. Comments: Digital pulse interval modulation, ordered sequence detection, signal design, error propagation, bit error rate Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1804.04431 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1804.04431v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1804.04431 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Shuaishuai Guo [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 12 Apr 2018 11:26:21 UTC (523 KB) [v2] Wed, 26 Dec 2018 05:02:53 UTC (250 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Ordered Sequence Detection and Barrier Signal Design for Digital Pulse Interval Modulation in Optical Wireless Communications, by Shuaishuai Guo and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-04 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
