<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio Content Analysis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2101.00132v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:26.915592+00:00

## Notes

[2101.00132v1] Audio Content Analysis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2101.00132v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2101.00132v1 (eess) [Submitted on 1 Jan 2021] Title: Audio Content Analysis Authors: Alexander Lerch View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Content Analysis, by Alexander Lerch View PDF Abstract: Preprint for a book chapter introducing Audio Content Analysis. With a focus on Music Information Retrieval systems, this chapter defines musical audio content, introduces the general process of audio content analysis, and surveys basic approaches to audio content analysis. The various tasks in Audio Content Analysis are categorized into three classes: music transcription, music performance analysis, and music identification and categorization. The examples for music transcription systems include music key detection, fundamental frequency detection, and music structure detection. Music performance analysis systems feature an overview of beat and tempo detection approaches as well as music performance assessment. The covered music classification systems are audio fingerprinting, music genre classification, and music emotion recognition. The chapter concludes with a discussion and current challenges in the field and a speculation on future perspectives. Comments: Preprint for a book chapter introducing Audio Content Analysis Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2101.00132 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2101.00132v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2101.00132 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Alexander Lerch [ view email ] [via Alexander Lerch as proxy] [v1] Fri, 1 Jan 2021 01:22:22 UTC (1,207 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Content Analysis, by Alexander Lerch View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
