<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Monitoring and Optimization for Power Grids: A Signal Processing Perspective

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1302.0885v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:12.235495+00:00

## Notes

[1302.0885v1] Monitoring and Optimization for Power Grids: A Signal Processing Perspective Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > math > arXiv:1302.0885v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Mathematics > Optimization and Control arXiv:1302.0885v1 (math) [Submitted on 4 Feb 2013] Title: Monitoring and Optimization for Power Grids: A Signal Processing Perspective Authors: Georgios B. Giannakis , Vassilis Kekatos , Nikolaos Gatsis , Seung-Jun Kim , Hao Zhu , Bruce F. Wollenberg View a PDF of the paper titled Monitoring and Optimization for Power Grids: A Signal Processing Perspective, by Georgios B. Giannakis and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: The smart grid vision is to revitalize the electric power network by leveraging the proven sensing, communication, control, and machine learning technologies to address pressing issues related to security, stability, environmental impact, market diversity, and novel power technologies. Significant effort and investment have been committed to architect the necessary infrastructure by installing advanced metering systems and establishing data communication networks throughout the grid. Signal processing methodologies are expected to play a major role in this context by providing intelligent algorithms that fully exploit such pervasive sensing and control capabilities to realize the vision and manifold anticipated benefits of the smart grid. In this feature article, analytical background and relevance of signal processing tools to power systems are delineated, while introducing major challenges and opportunities for the future grid engineering. From grid informatics to inference for monitoring and optimization tools, energy-related issues are shown to offer a fertile ground for signal processing growth whose time has come. Comments: Accepted for publication in the IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC) ; Applications (stat.AP) Cite as: arXiv:1302.0885 [math.OC] (or arXiv:1302.0885v1 [math.OC] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1302.0885 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2013.2245726 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Vassilis Kekatos [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 4 Feb 2013 22:01:53 UTC (2,105 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Monitoring and Optimization for Power Grids: A Signal Processing Perspective, by Georgios B. Giannakis and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: math.OC < prev | next > new | recent | 2013-02 Change to browse by: math stat stat.AP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
