<!-- source_type: articles -->
# SPICE: Self-supervised Pitch Estimation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.11664v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:16.564258+00:00

## Notes

[1910.11664v2] SPICE: Self-supervised Pitch Estimation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1910.11664v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:1910.11664v2 (eess) [Submitted on 25 Oct 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 4 Sep 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: SPICE: Self-supervised Pitch Estimation Authors: Beat Gfeller , Christian Frank , Dominik Roblek , Matt Sharifi , Marco Tagliasacchi , Mihajlo Velimirović View a PDF of the paper titled SPICE: Self-supervised Pitch Estimation, by Beat Gfeller and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: We propose a model to estimate the fundamental frequency in monophonic audio, often referred to as pitch estimation. We acknowledge the fact that obtaining ground truth annotations at the required temporal and frequency resolution is a particularly daunting task. Therefore, we propose to adopt a self-supervised learning technique, which is able to estimate pitch without any form of supervision. The key observation is that pitch shift maps to a simple translation when the audio signal is analysed through the lens of the constant-Q transform (CQT). We design a self-supervised task by feeding two shifted slices of the CQT to the same convolutional encoder, and require that the difference in the outputs is proportional to the corresponding difference in pitch. In addition, we introduce a small model head on top of the encoder, which is able to determine the confidence of the pitch estimate, so as to distinguish between voiced and unvoiced audio. Our results show that the proposed method is able to estimate pitch at a level of accuracy comparable to fully supervised models, both on clean and noisy audio samples, although it does not require access to large labeled datasets. Comments: Accepted to IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:1910.11664 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:1910.11664v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1910.11664 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 28, pp. 1118-1128, 2020 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2020.2982285 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Marco Tagliasacchi [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 25 Oct 2019 12:45:20 UTC (970 KB) [v2] Fri, 4 Sep 2020 10:40:39 UTC (1,348 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled SPICE: Self-supervised Pitch Estimation, by Beat Gfeller and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
