<!-- source_type: articles -->
# PSLA: Improving Audio Tagging with Pretraining, Sampling, Labeling, and Aggregation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.01243v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:25.781851+00:00

## Notes

[2102.01243v3] PSLA: Improving Audio Tagging with Pretraining, Sampling, Labeling, and Aggregation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2102.01243v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2102.01243v3 (cs) [Submitted on 2 Feb 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 17 Nov 2021 (this version, v3)] Title: PSLA: Improving Audio Tagging with Pretraining, Sampling, Labeling, and Aggregation Authors: Yuan Gong , Yu-An Chung , James Glass View a PDF of the paper titled PSLA: Improving Audio Tagging with Pretraining, Sampling, Labeling, and Aggregation, by Yuan Gong and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Audio tagging is an active research area and has a wide range of applications. Since the release of AudioSet, great progress has been made in advancing model performance, which mostly comes from the development of novel model architectures and attention modules. However, we find that appropriate training techniques are equally important for building audio tagging models with AudioSet, but have not received the attention they deserve. To fill the gap, in this work, we present PSLA, a collection of training techniques that can noticeably boost the model accuracy including ImageNet pretraining, balanced sampling, data augmentation, label enhancement, model aggregation and their design choices. By training an EfficientNet with these techniques, we obtain a single model (with 13.6M parameters) and an ensemble model that achieve mean average precision (mAP) scores of 0.444 and 0.474 on AudioSet, respectively, outperforming the previous best system of 0.439 with 81M parameters. In addition, our model also achieves a new state-of-the-art mAP of 0.567 on FSD50K. Comments: Published in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio Speech and Language Processing. Code at this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2102.01243 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2102.01243v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.01243 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 29, pp. 3292-3306, 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2021.3120633 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Yuan Gong [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 2 Feb 2021 01:00:38 UTC (2,002 KB) [v2] Thu, 27 May 2021 08:28:14 UTC (2,120 KB) [v3] Wed, 17 Nov 2021 17:41:06 UTC (1,458 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled PSLA: Improving Audio Tagging with Pretraining, Sampling, Labeling, and Aggregation, by Yuan Gong and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Yuan Gong Yu-An Chung James R. Glass export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
