<!-- source_type: articles -->
# MOSA: Music Motion with Semantic Annotation Dataset for Cross-Modal Music Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.06375v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:51.624407+00:00

## Notes

[2406.06375v1] MOSA: Music Motion with Semantic Annotation Dataset for Cross-Modal Music Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2406.06375v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2406.06375v1 (cs) [Submitted on 10 Jun 2024] Title: MOSA: Music Motion with Semantic Annotation Dataset for Cross-Modal Music Processing Authors: Yu-Fen Huang , Nikki Moran , Simon Coleman , Jon Kelly , Shun-Hwa Wei , Po-Yin Chen , Yun-Hsin Huang , Tsung-Ping Chen , Yu-Chia Kuo , Yu-Chi Wei , Chih-Hsuan Li , Da-Yu Huang , Hsuan-Kai Kao , Ting-Wei Lin , Li Su View a PDF of the paper titled MOSA: Music Motion with Semantic Annotation Dataset for Cross-Modal Music Processing, by Yu-Fen Huang and 14 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: In cross-modal music processing, translation between visual, auditory, and semantic content opens up new possibilities as well as challenges. The construction of such a transformative scheme depends upon a benchmark corpus with a comprehensive data infrastructure. In particular, the assembly of a large-scale cross-modal dataset presents major challenges. In this paper, we present the MOSA (Music mOtion with Semantic Annotation) dataset, which contains high quality 3-D motion capture data, aligned audio recordings, and note-by-note semantic annotations of pitch, beat, phrase, dynamic, articulation, and harmony for 742 professional music performances by 23 professional musicians, comprising more than 30 hours and 570 K notes of data. To our knowledge, this is the largest cross-modal music dataset with note-level annotations to date. To demonstrate the usage of the MOSA dataset, we present several innovative cross-modal music information retrieval (MIR) and musical content generation tasks, including the detection of beats, downbeats, phrase, and expressive contents from audio, video and motion data, and the generation of musicians' body motion from given music audio. The dataset and codes are available alongside this publication ( this https URL ). Comments: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 2024. 14 pages, 7 figures. Dataset is available on: this https URL and this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2406.06375 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2406.06375v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2406.06375 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2024.3407529 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Yu-Fen Huang [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 10 Jun 2024 15:37:46 UTC (3,503 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled MOSA: Music Motion with Semantic Annotation Dataset for Cross-Modal Music Processing, by Yu-Fen Huang and 14 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
