<!-- source_type: articles -->
# EviPlant: An efficient digital forensic challenge creation, manipulation and distribution solution

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08990v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:31.886137+00:00

## Notes

[1704.08990v1] EviPlant: An efficient digital forensic challenge creation, manipulation and distribution solution Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1704.08990v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Cryptography and Security arXiv:1704.08990v1 (cs) [Submitted on 28 Apr 2017] Title: EviPlant: An efficient digital forensic challenge creation, manipulation and distribution solution Authors: Mark Scanlon , Xiaoyu Du , David Lillis View a PDF of the paper titled EviPlant: An efficient digital forensic challenge creation, manipulation and distribution solution, by Mark Scanlon and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Education and training in digital forensics requires a variety of suitable challenge corpora containing realistic features including regular wear-and-tear, background noise, and the actual digital traces to be discovered during investigation. Typically, the creation of these challenges requires overly arduous effort on the part of the educator to ensure their viability. Once created, the challenge image needs to be stored and distributed to a class for practical training. This storage and distribution step requires significant time and resources and may not even be possible in an online/distance learning scenario due to the data sizes involved. As part of this paper, we introduce a more capable methodology and system as an alternative to current approaches. EviPlant is a system designed for the efficient creation, manipulation, storage and distribution of challenges for digital forensics education and training. The system relies on the initial distribution of base disk images, i.e., images containing solely base operating systems. In order to create challenges for students, educators can boot the base system, emulate the desired activity and perform a "diffing" of resultant image and the base image. This diffing process extracts the modified artefacts and associated metadata and stores them in an "evidence package". Evidence packages can be created for different personae, different wear-and-tear, different emulated crimes, etc., and multiple evidence packages can be distributed to students and integrated into the base images. A number of additional applications in digital forensic challenge creation for tool testing and validation, proficiency testing, and malware analysis are also discussed as a result of using EviPlant. Comments: Digital Forensic Research Workshop Europe 2017 Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR) ; Computers and Society (cs.CY) Cite as: arXiv:1704.08990 [cs.CR] (or arXiv:1704.08990v1 [cs.CR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1704.08990 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Digital Investigation, Volume 20, Supplement, March 2017, Pages S29-S36, ISSN 1742-2876 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2017.01.010 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Mark Scanlon [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 28 Apr 2017 16:13:35 UTC (725 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled EviPlant: An efficient digital forensic challenge creation, manipulation and distribution solution, by Mark Scanlon and 2 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.CR < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.CY References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Mark Scanlon Xiaoyu Du David Lillis export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
