<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Dissecting Temporal Understanding in Text-to-Audio Retrieval

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00851v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:24.277668+00:00

## Notes

[2409.00851v1] Dissecting Temporal Understanding in Text-to-Audio Retrieval Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2409.00851v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Retrieval arXiv:2409.00851v1 (cs) [Submitted on 1 Sep 2024] Title: Dissecting Temporal Understanding in Text-to-Audio Retrieval Authors: Andreea-Maria Oncescu , João F. Henriques , A. Sophia Koepke View a PDF of the paper titled Dissecting Temporal Understanding in Text-to-Audio Retrieval, by Andreea-Maria Oncescu and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Recent advancements in machine learning have fueled research on multimodal tasks, such as for instance text-to-video and text-to-audio retrieval. These tasks require models to understand the semantic content of video and audio data, including objects, and characters. The models also need to learn spatial arrangements and temporal relationships. In this work, we analyse the temporal ordering of sounds, which is an understudied problem in the context of text-to-audio retrieval. In particular, we dissect the temporal understanding capabilities of a state-of-the-art model for text-to-audio retrieval on the AudioCaps and Clotho datasets. Additionally, we introduce a synthetic text-audio dataset that provides a controlled setting for evaluating temporal capabilities of recent models. Lastly, we present a loss function that encourages text-audio models to focus on the temporal ordering of events. Code and data are available at this https URL . Comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, ACM Multimedia 2024, this https URL Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2409.00851 [cs.IR] (or arXiv:2409.00851v1 [cs.IR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.00851 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Andreea-Maria Oncescu [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 1 Sep 2024 22:01:21 UTC (4,112 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Dissecting Temporal Understanding in Text-to-Audio Retrieval, by Andreea-Maria Oncescu and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Additional Features Audio Summary Current browse context: cs.IR < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
