<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Wireless Energy Beamforming using Received Signal Strength Indicator Feedback

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.05212v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:42.238028+00:00

## Notes

[1705.05212v4] Wireless Energy Beamforming using Received Signal Strength Indicator Feedback Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1705.05212v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1705.05212v4 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Apr 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 1 Dec 2017 (this version, v4)] Title: Wireless Energy Beamforming using Received Signal Strength Indicator Feedback Authors: Samith Abeywickrama , Tharaka Samarasinghe , Chin Keong Ho , Chau Yuen View a PDF of the paper titled Wireless Energy Beamforming using Received Signal Strength Indicator Feedback, by Samith Abeywickrama and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Multiple antenna techniques that allow energy beamforming have been looked upon as a possible candidate for increasing the transfer efficiency between the energy transmitter (ET) and the energy receiver (ER) in wireless power transfer. This paper introduces a novel scheme that facilitates energy beamforming by utilizing Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) values to estimate the channel. Firstly, in the training stage, the ET will transmit using each beamforming vector in a codebook, which is pre-defined using a Cramer-Rao lower bound analysis. RSSI value corresponding to each beamforming vector is fed back to the ET, and these values are used to estimate the channel through a maximum likelihood analysis. The results that are obtained are remarkably simple, requires minimal processing, and can be easily implemented. The paper also validates the analytical results numerically, as well as experimentally, and it is shown that the proposed method achieves impressive results. Comments: 13 pages, 13 figures, Accepted by IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:1705.05212 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1705.05212v4 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1705.05212 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing ( Volume: 66, Issue: 1, Pages:224 - 235, Jan.1, 1 2018 ) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2017.2764854 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Tharindu Abeywickrama [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 4 Apr 2017 10:05:03 UTC (2,175 KB) [v2] Tue, 27 Jun 2017 08:32:50 UTC (2,226 KB) [v3] Wed, 22 Nov 2017 08:30:07 UTC (5,258 KB) [v4] Fri, 1 Dec 2017 02:42:24 UTC (5,160 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Wireless Energy Beamforming using Received Signal Strength Indicator Feedback, by Samith Abeywickrama and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-05 Change to browse by: cs math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Samith Abeywickrama Tharaka Samarasinghe Chin Keong Ho export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
