<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signal-domain representation of symbolic music for learning embedding spaces

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.03454v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:11.315926+00:00

## Notes

[2109.03454v1] Signal-domain representation of symbolic music for learning embedding spaces Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2109.03454v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2109.03454v1 (cs) [Submitted on 8 Sep 2021] Title: Signal-domain representation of symbolic music for learning embedding spaces Authors: Mathieu Prang (IRCAM), Philippe Esling View a PDF of the paper titled Signal-domain representation of symbolic music for learning embedding spaces, by Mathieu Prang (IRCAM) and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: A key aspect of machine learning models lies in their ability to learn efficient intermediate features. However, the input representation plays a crucial role in this process, and polyphonic musical scores remain a particularly complex type of information. In this paper, we introduce a novel representation of symbolic music data, which transforms a polyphonic score into a continuous signal. We evaluate the ability to learn meaningful features from this representation from a musical point of view. Hence, we introduce an evaluation method relying on principled generation of synthetic data. Finally, to test our proposed representation we conduct an extensive benchmark against recent polyphonic symbolic representations. We show that our signal-like representation leads to better reconstruction and disentangled features. This improvement is reflected in the metric properties and in the generation ability of the space learned from our signal-like representation according to music theory properties. Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2109.03454 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2109.03454v1 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2109.03454 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: The 2020 Joint Conference on AI Music Creativity, Oct 2020, Stockholm, Sweden Submission history From: Mathieu Prang [ view email ] [via CCSD proxy] [v1] Wed, 8 Sep 2021 06:36:02 UTC (1,145 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signal-domain representation of symbolic music for learning embedding spaces, by Mathieu Prang (IRCAM) and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Philippe Esling export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
