<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Asymptotic Analysis of Synchronous Signal Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18445v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:09.688847+00:00

## Notes

[2403.18445v3] Asymptotic Analysis of Synchronous Signal Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2403.18445v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2403.18445v3 (eess) [Submitted on 27 Mar 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 14 Nov 2025 (this version, v3)] Title: Asymptotic Analysis of Synchronous Signal Processing Authors: Marc Vilà-Insa , Jaume Riba View a PDF of the paper titled Asymptotic Analysis of Synchronous Signal Processing, by Marc Vil\`a-Insa and Jaume Riba View PDF Abstract: This paper extends various theoretical results from stationary data processing to cyclostationary (CS) processes under a unified framework. We first derive their asymptotic eigenbasis, which provides a link between their Fourier and Karhunen-Loève (KL) expansions, through a unitary transformation dictated by the cyclic spectrum. By exploiting this connection and the optimalities offered by the KL representation, we study the asymptotic performance of smoothing, filtering and prediction of CS processes, without the need for deriving explicit implementations. We obtain minimum mean squared error expressions that depend on the cyclic spectrum and include classical limits based on the power spectral density as particular cases. We conclude this work by applying the results to a practical scenario, in order to quantify the achievable gains of synchronous signal processing. Comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, accepted version of the article published in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 2025. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2025.3627779 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) MSC classes: 94A12 (Primary), 60G12 (Secondary) ACM classes: G.3 Cite as: arXiv:2403.18445 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2403.18445v3 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2403.18445 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2025.3627779 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Marc Vilà-Insa [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 27 Mar 2024 11:01:15 UTC (173 KB) [v2] Mon, 29 Sep 2025 13:30:51 UTC (92 KB) [v3] Fri, 14 Nov 2025 11:27:25 UTC (607 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Asymptotic Analysis of Synchronous Signal Processing, by Marc Vil\`a-Insa and Jaume Riba View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-03 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
