<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Comprehensive Analysis of the Role of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Modern Digital Forensics and Incident Response

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07064v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:01.677964+00:00

## Notes

[2309.07064v2] A Comprehensive Analysis of the Role of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Modern Digital Forensics and Incident Response Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2309.07064v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Cryptography and Security arXiv:2309.07064v2 (cs) [Submitted on 13 Sep 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 3 Dec 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: A Comprehensive Analysis of the Role of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Modern Digital Forensics and Incident Response Authors: Dipo Dunsin , Mohamed C. Ghanem , Karim Ouazzane , Vassil Vassilev View a PDF of the paper titled A Comprehensive Analysis of the Role of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Modern Digital Forensics and Incident Response, by Dipo Dunsin and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: In the dynamic landscape of digital forensics, the integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) stands as a transformative technology, poised to amplify the efficiency and precision of digital forensics investigations. However, the use of ML and AI in digital forensics is still in its nascent stages. As a result, this paper gives a thorough and in-depth analysis that goes beyond a simple survey and review. The goal is to look closely at how AI and ML techniques are used in digital forensics and incident response. This research explores cutting-edge research initiatives that cross domains such as data collection and recovery, the intricate reconstruction of cybercrime timelines, robust big data analysis, pattern recognition, safeguarding the chain of custody, and orchestrating responsive strategies to hacking incidents. This endeavour digs far beneath the surface to unearth the intricate ways AI-driven methodologies are shaping these crucial facets of digital forensics practice. While the promise of AI in digital forensics is evident, the challenges arising from increasing database sizes and evolving criminal tactics necessitate ongoing collaborative research and refinement within the digital forensics profession. This study examines the contributions, limitations, and gaps in the existing research, shedding light on the potential and limitations of AI and ML techniques. By exploring these different research areas, we highlight the critical need for strategic planning, continual research, and development to unlock AI's full potential in digital forensics and incident response. Ultimately, this paper underscores the significance of AI and ML integration in digital forensics, offering insights into their benefits, drawbacks, and broader implications for tackling modern cyber threats. Comments: version 2 post peer review Forensic Science International Digital Investigation Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI) Report number: Volume 48, 301675 Cite as: arXiv:2309.07064 [cs.CR] (or arXiv:2309.07064v2 [cs.CR] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.07064 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 2024 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fsidi.2023.301675 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Mohamed Chahine Ghanem Dr [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 13 Sep 2023 16:23:53 UTC (1,954 KB) [v2] Sun, 3 Dec 2023 09:02:30 UTC (2,000 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Comprehensive Analysis of the Role of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Modern Digital Forensics and Incident Response, by Dipo Dunsin and 3 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.CR < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.NI References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
