<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Efficient bandwidth extension of musical signals using a differentiable harmonic plus noise model

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07363v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:46.835065+00:00

## Notes

[2311.07363v3] Efficient bandwidth extension of musical signals using a differentiable harmonic plus noise model Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2311.07363v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2311.07363v3 (cs) [Submitted on 13 Nov 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 27 Nov 2023 (this version, v3)] Title: Efficient bandwidth extension of musical signals using a differentiable harmonic plus noise model Authors: Pierre-Amaury Grumiaux , Mathieu Lagrange View a PDF of the paper titled Efficient bandwidth extension of musical signals using a differentiable harmonic plus noise model, by Pierre-Amaury Grumiaux and Mathieu Lagrange View PDF Abstract: The task of bandwidth extension addresses the generation of missing high frequencies of audio signals based on knowledge of the low-frequency part of the sound. This task applies to various problems, such as audio coding or audio restoration. In this article, we focus on efficient bandwidth extension of monophonic and polyphonic musical signals using a differentiable digital signal processing (DDSP) model. Such a model is composed of a neural network part with relatively few parameters trained to infer the parameters of a differentiable digital signal processing model, which efficiently generates the output full-band audio signal. We first address bandwidth extension of monophonic signals, and then propose two methods to explicitely handle polyphonic signals. The benefits of the proposed models are first demonstrated on monophonic and polyphonic synthetic data against a baseline and a deep-learning-based resnet model. The models are next evaluated on recorded monophonic and polyphonic data, for a wide variety of instruments and musical genres. We show that all proposed models surpass a higher complexity deep learning model for an objective metric computed in the frequency domain. A MUSHRA listening test confirms the superiority of the proposed approach in terms of perceptual quality. Comments: Accepting for publication in EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2311.07363 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2311.07363v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.07363 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Pierre-Amaury Grumiaux [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 13 Nov 2023 14:26:32 UTC (2,781 KB) [v2] Tue, 21 Nov 2023 15:33:20 UTC (2,808 KB) [v3] Mon, 27 Nov 2023 11:36:06 UTC (2,808 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Efficient bandwidth extension of musical signals using a differentiable harmonic plus noise model, by Pierre-Amaury Grumiaux and Mathieu Lagrange View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-11 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
