<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multilingual Music Genre Embeddings for Effective Cross-Lingual Music Item Annotation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2009.07755v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:34.336528+00:00

## Notes

[2009.07755v1] Multilingual Music Genre Embeddings for Effective Cross-Lingual Music Item Annotation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2009.07755v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:2009.07755v1 (cs) [Submitted on 16 Sep 2020] Title: Multilingual Music Genre Embeddings for Effective Cross-Lingual Music Item Annotation Authors: Elena V. Epure , Guillaume Salha , Romain Hennequin View a PDF of the paper titled Multilingual Music Genre Embeddings for Effective Cross-Lingual Music Item Annotation, by Elena V. Epure and Guillaume Salha and Romain Hennequin View PDF Abstract: Annotating music items with music genres is crucial for music recommendation and information retrieval, yet challenging given that music genres are subjective concepts. Recently, in order to explicitly consider this subjectivity, the annotation of music items was modeled as a translation task: predict for a music item its music genres within a target vocabulary or taxonomy (tag system) from a set of music genre tags originating from other tag systems. However, without a parallel corpus, previous solutions could not handle tag systems in other languages, being limited to the English-language only. Here, by learning multilingual music genre embeddings, we enable cross-lingual music genre translation without relying on a parallel corpus. First, we apply compositionality functions on pre-trained word embeddings to represent multi-word this http URL , we adapt the tag representations to the music domain by leveraging multilingual music genres graphs with a modified retrofitting algorithm. Experiments show that our method: 1) is effective in translating music genres across tag systems in multiple languages (English, French and Spanish); 2) outperforms the previous baseline in an English-language multi-source translation task. We publicly release the new multilingual data and code. Comments: 21st International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2020) Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:2009.07755 [cs.CL] (or arXiv:2009.07755v1 [cs.CL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2009.07755 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Guillaume Salha [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 16 Sep 2020 15:39:04 UTC (131 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multilingual Music Genre Embeddings for Effective Cross-Lingual Music Item Annotation, by Elena V. Epure and Guillaume Salha and Romain Hennequin View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CL < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR cs.LG References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Elena V. Epure Guillaume Salha Romain Hennequin export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
