<!-- source_type: articles -->
# VQCPC-GAN: Variable-Length Adversarial Audio Synthesis Using Vector-Quantized Contrastive Predictive Coding

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2105.01531v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:56:19.818578+00:00

## Notes

[2105.01531v2] VQCPC-GAN: Variable-Length Adversarial Audio Synthesis Using Vector-Quantized Contrastive Predictive Coding Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2105.01531v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2105.01531v2 (cs) [Submitted on 4 May 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 30 Jul 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: VQCPC-GAN: Variable-Length Adversarial Audio Synthesis Using Vector-Quantized Contrastive Predictive Coding Authors: Javier Nistal , Cyran Aouameur , Stefan Lattner , Gaël Richard View a PDF of the paper titled VQCPC-GAN: Variable-Length Adversarial Audio Synthesis Using Vector-Quantized Contrastive Predictive Coding, by Javier Nistal and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Influenced by the field of Computer Vision, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are often adopted for the audio domain using fixed-size two-dimensional spectrogram representations as the "image data". However, in the (musical) audio domain, it is often desired to generate output of variable duration. This paper presents VQCPC-GAN, an adversarial framework for synthesizing variable-length audio by exploiting Vector-Quantized Contrastive Predictive Coding (VQCPC). A sequence of VQCPC tokens extracted from real audio data serves as conditional input to a GAN architecture, providing step-wise time-dependent features of the generated content. The input noise z (characteristic in adversarial architectures) remains fixed over time, ensuring temporal consistency of global features. We evaluate the proposed model by comparing a diverse set of metrics against various strong baselines. Results show that, even though the baselines score best, VQCPC-GAN achieves comparable performance even when generating variable-length audio. Numerous sound examples are provided in the accompanying website, and we release the code for reproducibility. Comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, 1 table; accepted to IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2105.01531 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2105.01531v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2105.01531 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA), 2021 Submission history From: Javier Nistal [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 4 May 2021 14:35:51 UTC (261 KB) [v2] Fri, 30 Jul 2021 10:06:42 UTC (261 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled VQCPC-GAN: Variable-Length Adversarial Audio Synthesis Using Vector-Quantized Contrastive Predictive Coding, by Javier Nistal and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Cyran Aouameur Stefan Lattner Gaël Richard export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
