<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Modeling Musical Context with Word2vec

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.09088v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:04.365012+00:00

## Notes

[1706.09088v2] Modeling Musical Context with Word2vec Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1706.09088v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1706.09088v2 (cs) [Submitted on 28 Jun 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 29 Jun 2017 (this version, v2)] Title: Modeling Musical Context with Word2vec Authors: Dorien Herremans , Ching-Hua Chuan View a PDF of the paper titled Modeling Musical Context with Word2vec, by Dorien Herremans and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: We present a semantic vector space model for capturing complex polyphonic musical context. A word2vec model based on a skip-gram representation with negative sampling was used to model slices of music from a dataset of Beethoven's piano sonatas. A visualization of the reduced vector space using t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding shows that the resulting embedded vector space captures tonal relationships, even without any explicit information about the musical contents of the slices. Secondly, an excerpt of the Moonlight Sonata from Beethoven was altered by replacing slices based on context similarity. The resulting music shows that the selected slice based on similar word2vec context also has a relatively short tonal distance from the original slice. Comments: Proceedings of the First International Conference on Deep Learning and Music, Anchorage, US, May, 2017 ( arXiv:1706.08675v1 [cs.NE]) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Multimedia (cs.MM); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE) MSC classes: 68Txx ACM classes: C.1.3; H.5.1 Report number: DLM/2017/1 Cite as: arXiv:1706.09088 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1706.09088v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1706.09088 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Deep Learning and Music joint with IJCNN. Anchorage, US. 1(1). pp 11-18 (2017) Submission history From: Dorien Herremans [ view email ] [via Dorien Herremans as proxy] [v1] Wed, 28 Jun 2017 00:46:50 UTC (632 KB) [v2] Thu, 29 Jun 2017 02:33:06 UTC (631 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Modeling Musical Context with Word2vec, by Dorien Herremans and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR cs.MM cs.NE References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Dorien Herremans Ching-Hua Chuan export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
