<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Dynamic Convolutional Neural Networks as Efficient Pre-trained Audio Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15648v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:52.100266+00:00

## Notes

[2310.15648v1] Dynamic Convolutional Neural Networks as Efficient Pre-trained Audio Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2310.15648v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2310.15648v1 (cs) [Submitted on 24 Oct 2023] Title: Dynamic Convolutional Neural Networks as Efficient Pre-trained Audio Models Authors: Florian Schmid , Khaled Koutini , Gerhard Widmer View a PDF of the paper titled Dynamic Convolutional Neural Networks as Efficient Pre-trained Audio Models, by Florian Schmid and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: The introduction of large-scale audio datasets, such as AudioSet, paved the way for Transformers to conquer the audio domain and replace CNNs as the state-of-the-art neural network architecture for many tasks. Audio Spectrogram Transformers are excellent at exploiting large datasets, creating powerful pre-trained models that surpass CNNs when fine-tuned on downstream tasks. However, current popular Audio Spectrogram Transformers are demanding in terms of computational complexity compared to CNNs. Recently, we have shown that, by employing Transformer-to-CNN Knowledge Distillation, efficient CNNs can catch up with and even outperform Transformers on large datasets. In this work, we extend this line of research and increase the capacity of efficient CNNs by introducing dynamic CNN blocks, constructed of dynamic non-linearities, dynamic convolutions and attention mechanisms. We show that these dynamic CNNs outperform traditional efficient CNNs, in terms of the performance-complexity trade-off and parameter efficiency, at the task of audio tagging on the large-scale AudioSet. Our experiments further indicate that the introduced dynamic CNNs achieve better performance on downstream tasks and scale up well, attaining Transformer performance and even outperforming them on AudioSet and several downstream tasks. Comments: Submitted to IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing. Source Code available at: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2310.15648 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2310.15648v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.15648 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Florian Schmid [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 24 Oct 2023 09:08:20 UTC (1,283 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Dynamic Convolutional Neural Networks as Efficient Pre-trained Audio Models, by Florian Schmid and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
