<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Attention or Convolution: Transformer Encoders in Audio Language Models for Inference Efficiency

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02772v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:15.440263+00:00

## Notes

[2311.02772v2] Attention or Convolution: Transformer Encoders in Audio Language Models for Inference Efficiency Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2311.02772v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2311.02772v2 (cs) [Submitted on 5 Nov 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Feb 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: Attention or Convolution: Transformer Encoders in Audio Language Models for Inference Efficiency Authors: Sungho Jeon , Ching-Feng Yeh , Hakan Inan , Wei-Ning Hsu , Rashi Rungta , Yashar Mehdad , Daniel Bikel View a PDF of the paper titled Attention or Convolution: Transformer Encoders in Audio Language Models for Inference Efficiency, by Sungho Jeon and 6 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this paper, we show that a simple self-supervised pre-trained audio model can achieve comparable inference efficiency to more complicated pre-trained models with speech transformer encoders. These speech transformers rely on mixing convolutional modules with self-attention modules. They achieve state-of-the-art performance on ASR with top efficiency. We first show that employing these speech transformers as an encoder significantly improves the efficiency of pre-trained audio models as well. However, our study shows that we can achieve comparable efficiency with advanced self-attention solely. We demonstrate that this simpler approach is particularly beneficial with a low-bit weight quantization technique of a neural network to improve efficiency. We hypothesize that it prevents propagating the errors between different quantized modules compared to recent speech transformers mixing quantized convolution and the quantized self-attention modules. Comments: 5 pages; accepted to Self-supervision in Audio, Speech and Beyond (SASB) workshop in ICASSP24 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2311.02772 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2311.02772v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.02772 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sungho Jeon [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 5 Nov 2023 21:30:10 UTC (299 KB) [v2] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 10:09:18 UTC (299 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Attention or Convolution: Transformer Encoders in Audio Language Models for Inference Efficiency, by Sungho Jeon and 6 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
