<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Event-based Signal Processing for Radioisotope Identification

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2007.05686v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:50.223417+00:00

## Notes

[2007.05686v2] Event-based Signal Processing for Radioisotope Identification Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2007.05686v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2007.05686v2 (eess) [Submitted on 11 Jul 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 2 Oct 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: Event-based Signal Processing for Radioisotope Identification Authors: Xiaoyu Huang , Edward Jones , Siru Zhang , Steve Furber , Yannis Goulermas , Edward Marsden , Ian Baistow , Srinjoy Mitra , Alister Hamilton View a PDF of the paper titled Event-based Signal Processing for Radioisotope Identification, by Xiaoyu Huang and 8 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper identifies the problem of unnecessary high power overhead of the conventional frame-based radioisotope identification process and proposes an event-based signal processing process to address the problem established. It also presents the design flow of the neuromorphic processor. Comments: 4 pages, 7 figures, sixth international conference of Event-Based Control, Communication and Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2007.05686 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2007.05686v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2007.05686 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Xiaoyu Huang [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 11 Jul 2020 05:33:58 UTC (804 KB) [v2] Fri, 2 Oct 2020 09:32:30 UTC (845 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Event-based Signal Processing for Radioisotope Identification, by Xiaoyu Huang and 8 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-07 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
