<!-- source_type: articles -->
# LaunchpadGPT: Language Model as Music Visualization Designer on Launchpad

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04827v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:02.511948+00:00

## Notes

[2307.04827v3] LaunchpadGPT: Language Model as Music Visualization Designer on Launchpad Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2307.04827v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2307.04827v3 (cs) [Submitted on 7 Jul 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Oct 2025 (this version, v3)] Title: LaunchpadGPT: Language Model as Music Visualization Designer on Launchpad Authors: Siting Xu , Yolo Yunlong Tang , Feng Zheng View a PDF of the paper titled LaunchpadGPT: Language Model as Music Visualization Designer on Launchpad, by Siting Xu and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Launchpad is a musical instrument that allows users to create and perform music by pressing illuminated buttons. To assist and inspire the design of the Launchpad light effect, and provide a more accessible approach for beginners to create music visualization with this instrument, we proposed the LaunchpadGPT model to generate music visualization designs on Launchpad automatically. Based on the language model with excellent generation ability, our proposed LaunchpadGPT takes an audio piece of music as input and outputs the lighting effects of Launchpad-playing in the form of a video (Launchpad-playing video). We collect Launchpad-playing videos and process them to obtain music and corresponding video frame of Launchpad-playing as prompt-completion pairs, to train the language model. The experiment result shows the proposed method can create better music visualization than random generation methods and hold the potential for a broader range of music visualization applications. Our code is available at this https URL . Comments: Accepted to International Computer Music Conference (ICMC) 2023 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2307.04827 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2307.04827v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.04827 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Yunlong Tang [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 7 Jul 2023 16:25:59 UTC (3,565 KB) [v2] Sun, 23 Jul 2023 10:20:28 UTC (3,565 KB) [v3] Wed, 8 Oct 2025 17:24:43 UTC (1,419 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled LaunchpadGPT: Language Model as Music Visualization Designer on Launchpad, by Siting Xu and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
