<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Resampling Filter Design for Multirate Neural Audio Effect Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18470v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:11.044610+00:00

## Notes

[2501.18470v2] Resampling Filter Design for Multirate Neural Audio Effect Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2501.18470v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2501.18470v2 (eess) [Submitted on 30 Jan 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 27 May 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Resampling Filter Design for Multirate Neural Audio Effect Processing Authors: Alistair Carson , Vesa Välimäki , Alec Wright , Stefan Bilbao View a PDF of the paper titled Resampling Filter Design for Multirate Neural Audio Effect Processing, by Alistair Carson and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Neural networks have become ubiquitous in audio effects modelling, especially for guitar amplifiers and distortion pedals. One limitation of such models is that the sample rate of the training data is implicitly encoded in the model weights and therefore not readily adjustable at inference. Recent work explored modifications to recurrent neural network architecture to approximate a sample rate independent system, enabling audio processing at a rate that differs from the original training rate. This method works well for integer oversampling and can reduce aliasing caused by nonlinear activation functions. For small fractional changes in sample rate, fractional delay filters can be used to approximate sample rate independence, but in some cases this method fails entirely. Here, we explore the use of real-time signal resampling at the input and output of the neural network as an alternative solution. We investigate several resampling filter designs and show that a two-stage design consisting of a half-band IIR filter cascaded with a Kaiser window FIR filter can give similar or better results to the previously proposed model adjustment method with many fewer filtering operations per sample and less than one millisecond of latency at typical audio rates. Furthermore, we investigate interpolation and decimation filters for the task of integer oversampling and show that cascaded half-band IIR and FIR designs can be used in conjunction with the model adjustment method to reduce aliasing in a range of distortion effect models. Comments: Accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2501.18470 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2501.18470v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2501.18470 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Alistair Carson [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 30 Jan 2025 16:44:49 UTC (4,333 KB) [v2] Tue, 27 May 2025 09:56:21 UTC (2,964 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Resampling Filter Design for Multirate Neural Audio Effect Processing, by Alistair Carson and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
