<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A-Optimal Sampling and Robust Reconstruction for Graph Signals via Truncated Neumann Series

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1803.03353v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:56.267899+00:00

## Notes

[1803.03353v2] A-Optimal Sampling and Robust Reconstruction for Graph Signals via Truncated Neumann Series Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1803.03353v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1803.03353v2 (eess) [Submitted on 9 Mar 2018 ( v1 ), last revised 4 Dec 2018 (this version, v2)] Title: A-Optimal Sampling and Robust Reconstruction for Graph Signals via Truncated Neumann Series Authors: Fen Wang , Yongchao Wang , Gene Cheung View a PDF of the paper titled A-Optimal Sampling and Robust Reconstruction for Graph Signals via Truncated Neumann Series, by Fen Wang and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Graph signal processing (GSP) studies signals that live on irregular data kernels described by graphs. One fundamental problem in GSP is sampling---from which subset of graph nodes to collect samples in order to reconstruct a bandlimited graph signal in high fidelity. In this paper, we seek a sampling strategy that minimizes the mean square error (MSE) of the reconstructed bandlimited graph signals assuming an independent and identically distributed (iid) noise model---leading naturally to the A-optimal design criterion. To avoid matrix inversion, we first prove that the inverse of the information matrix in the A-optimal criterion is equivalent to a Neumann matrix series. We then transform the truncated Neumann series based sampling problem into an equivalent expression that replaces eigenvectors of the Laplacian operator with a sub-matrix of an ideal low-pass graph filter. Finally, we approximate the ideal filter using a Chebyshev matrix polynomial. We design a greedy algorithm to iteratively minimize the simplified objective. For signal reconstruction, we propose an accompanied signal reconstruction strategy that reuses the approximated filter sub-matrix and is provably more robust than conventional least square recovery. Simulation results show that our sampling strategy outperforms two previous strategies in MSE performance at comparable complexity. Comments: accepted to IEEE Signal Processing Letters Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1803.03353 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1803.03353v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1803.03353 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/LSP.2018.2818062 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Fen Wang [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 9 Mar 2018 02:07:58 UTC (1,034 KB) [v2] Tue, 4 Dec 2018 15:52:22 UTC (100 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A-Optimal Sampling and Robust Reconstruction for Graph Signals via Truncated Neumann Series, by Fen Wang and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-03 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
