<!-- source_type: articles -->
# TACOS: Temporally-aligned Audio CaptiOnS for Language-Audio Pretraining

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.07609v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:49.832354+00:00

## Notes

[2505.07609v1] TACOS: Temporally-aligned Audio CaptiOnS for Language-Audio Pretraining Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2505.07609v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2505.07609v1 (eess) [Submitted on 12 May 2025] Title: TACOS: Temporally-aligned Audio CaptiOnS for Language-Audio Pretraining Authors: Paul Primus , Florian Schmid , Gerhard Widmer View a PDF of the paper titled TACOS: Temporally-aligned Audio CaptiOnS for Language-Audio Pretraining, by Paul Primus and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Learning to associate audio with textual descriptions is valuable for a range of tasks, including pretraining, zero-shot classification, audio retrieval, audio captioning, and text-conditioned audio generation. Existing contrastive language-audio pretrained models are typically trained using global, clip-level descriptions, which provide only weak temporal supervision. We hypothesize that CLAP-like language-audio models - particularly, if they are expected to produce frame-level embeddings - can benefit from a stronger temporal supervision. To confirm our hypothesis, we curate a novel dataset of approximately 12,000 audio recordings from Freesound, each annotated with single-sentence free-text descriptions linked to a specific temporal segment in an audio recording. We use large language models to clean these annotations by removing references to non-audible events, transcribed speech, typos, and annotator language bias. We further propose a frame-wise contrastive training strategy that learns to align text descriptions with temporal regions in an audio recording and demonstrate that our model has better temporal text-audio alignment abilities compared to models trained only on global captions when evaluated on the AudioSet Strong benchmark. The dataset and our source code are available on Zenodo and GitHub, respectively. Comments: submitted to the IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA), 2025. Dataset (Zenodo): this https URL , Implementation (GitHub): this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2505.07609 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2505.07609v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.07609 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Paul Primus [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 12 May 2025 14:30:39 UTC (299 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled TACOS: Temporally-aligned Audio CaptiOnS for Language-Audio Pretraining, by Paul Primus and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
