<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Neutone SDK: An Open Source Framework for Neural Audio Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2508.09126v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:26.206418+00:00

## Notes

[2508.09126v1] Neutone SDK: An Open Source Framework for Neural Audio Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2508.09126v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2508.09126v1 (cs) [Submitted on 12 Aug 2025] Title: Neutone SDK: An Open Source Framework for Neural Audio Processing Authors: Christopher Mitcheltree , Bogdan Teleaga , Andrew Fyfe , Naotake Masuda , Matthias Schäfer , Alfie Bradic , Nao Tokui View a PDF of the paper titled Neutone SDK: An Open Source Framework for Neural Audio Processing, by Christopher Mitcheltree and 6 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Neural audio processing has unlocked novel methods of sound transformation and synthesis, yet integrating deep learning models into digital audio workstations (DAWs) remains challenging due to real-time / neural network inference constraints and the complexities of plugin development. In this paper, we introduce the Neutone SDK: an open source framework that streamlines the deployment of PyTorch-based neural audio models for both real-time and offline applications. By encapsulating common challenges such as variable buffer sizes, sample rate conversion, delay compensation, and control parameter handling within a unified, model-agnostic interface, our framework enables seamless interoperability between neural models and host plugins while allowing users to work entirely in Python. We provide a technical overview of the interfaces needed to accomplish this, as well as the corresponding SDK implementations. We also demonstrate the SDK's versatility across applications such as audio effect emulation, timbre transfer, and sample generation, as well as its adoption by researchers, educators, companies, and artists alike. The Neutone SDK is available at this https URL Comments: Accepted to AES International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Audio 2025 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Software Engineering (cs.SE); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2508.09126 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2508.09126v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2508.09126 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Christopher Mitcheltree [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 12 Aug 2025 17:55:08 UTC (2,902 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Neutone SDK: An Open Source Framework for Neural Audio Processing, by Christopher Mitcheltree and 6 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.SE eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
