<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Cross-Laplacians Based Topological Signal Processing over Cell MultiComplexes

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07671v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:04.862881+00:00

## Notes

[2504.07671v1] Cross-Laplacians Based Topological Signal Processing over Cell MultiComplexes Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2504.07671v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2504.07671v1 (eess) [Submitted on 10 Apr 2025] Title: Cross-Laplacians Based Topological Signal Processing over Cell MultiComplexes Authors: Stefania Sardellitti , Breno C. Bispo , Fernando A. N. Santos , Juliano B. Lima View a PDF of the paper titled Cross-Laplacians Based Topological Signal Processing over Cell MultiComplexes, by Stefania Sardellitti and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The study of the interactions among different types of interconnected systems in complex networks has attracted significant interest across many research fields. However, effective signal processing over layered networks requires topological descriptors of the intra- and cross-layers relationships that are able to disentangle the homologies of different domains, at different scales, according to the specific learning task. In this paper, we present Cell MultiComplex (CMC) spaces, which are novel topological domains for representing multiple higher-order relationships among interconnected complexes. We introduce cross-Laplacians matrices, which are algebraic descriptors of CMCs enabling the extraction of topological invariants at different scales, whether global or local, inter-layer or intra-layer. Using the eigenvectors of these cross-Laplacians as signal bases, we develop topological signal processing tools for CMC spaces. In this first study, we focus on the representation and filtering of noisy flows observed over cross-edges between different layers of CMCs to identify cross-layer hubs, i.e., key nodes on one layer controlling the others. Comments: Submitted to the 33rd European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO) 2025, 5 pages, 4 figures Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2504.07671 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2504.07671v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.07671 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Stefania Sardellitti [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 10 Apr 2025 11:42:58 UTC (705 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Cross-Laplacians Based Topological Signal Processing over Cell MultiComplexes, by Stefania Sardellitti and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-04 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
