<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio Tampering Detection Based on Shallow and Deep Feature Representation Learning

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2210.10506v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:02.630076+00:00

## Notes

[2210.10506v1] Audio Tampering Detection Based on Shallow and Deep Feature Representation Learning Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2210.10506v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2210.10506v1 (cs) [Submitted on 19 Oct 2022] Title: Audio Tampering Detection Based on Shallow and Deep Feature Representation Learning Authors: Zhifeng Wang , Yao Yang , Chunyan Zeng , Shuai Kong , Shixiong Feng , Nan Zhao View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Tampering Detection Based on Shallow and Deep Feature Representation Learning, by Zhifeng Wang and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Digital audio tampering detection can be used to verify the authenticity of digital audio. However, most current methods use standard electronic network frequency (ENF) databases for visual comparison analysis of ENF continuity of digital audio or perform feature extraction for classification by machine learning methods. ENF databases are usually tricky to obtain, visual methods have weak feature representation, and machine learning methods have more information loss in features, resulting in low detection accuracy. This paper proposes a fusion method of shallow and deep features to fully use ENF information by exploiting the complementary nature of features at different levels to more accurately describe the changes in inconsistency produced by tampering operations to raw digital audio. The method achieves 97.03% accuracy on three classic databases: Carioca 1, Carioca 2, and New Spanish. In addition, we have achieved an accuracy of 88.31% on the newly constructed database GAUDI-DI. Experimental results show that the proposed method is superior to the state-of-the-art method. Comments: Audio tampering detection, 21 pages, 4 figures Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2210.10506 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2210.10506v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2210.10506 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Zhifeng Wang [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 19 Oct 2022 12:22:19 UTC (118 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Tampering Detection Based on Shallow and Deep Feature Representation Learning, by Zhifeng Wang and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-10 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
