<!-- source_type: articles -->
# EEG Signal Dimensionality Reduction and Classification using Tensor Decomposition and Deep Convolutional Neural Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10432v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:52.300085+00:00

## Notes

[1908.10432v1] EEG Signal Dimensionality Reduction and Classification using Tensor Decomposition and Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1908.10432v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1908.10432v1 (eess) [Submitted on 27 Aug 2019] Title: EEG Signal Dimensionality Reduction and Classification using Tensor Decomposition and Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Authors: Mojtaba Taherisadr , Mohsen Joneidi , Nazanin Rahnavard View a PDF of the paper titled EEG Signal Dimensionality Reduction and Classification using Tensor Decomposition and Deep Convolutional Neural Networks, by Mojtaba Taherisadr and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: A new deep learning-based electroencephalography (EEG) signal analysis framework is proposed. While deep neural networks, specifically convolutional neural networks (CNNs), have gained remarkable attention recently, they still suffer from high dimensionality of the training data. Two-dimensional input images of CNNs are more vulnerable to be redundant versus one-dimensional input time-series of conventional neural networks. In this study, we propose a new dimensionality reduction framework for reducing the dimension of CNN inputs based on the tensor decomposition of the time-frequency representation of EEG signals. The proposed tensor decomposition-based dimensionality reduction algorithm transforms a large set of slices of the input tensor to a concise set of slices which are called super-slices. Employing super-slices not only handles the artifacts and redundancies of the EEG data but also reduces the dimension of the CNNs training inputs. We also consider different time-frequency representation methods for EEG image generation and provide a comprehensive comparison among them. We test our proposed framework on HCB-MIT data and as results show our approach outperforms other previous studies. Comments: 2019 IEEE International Workshop on Machine Learning for Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Spectral Theory (math.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1908.10432 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1908.10432v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1908.10432 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 2019 IEEE International Workshop on Machine Learning for Signal Processing Submission history From: Mohsen Joneidi [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 27 Aug 2019 19:44:38 UTC (1,148 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled EEG Signal Dimensionality Reduction and Classification using Tensor Decomposition and Deep Convolutional Neural Networks, by Mojtaba Taherisadr and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-08 Change to browse by: eess eess.IV math math.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
