<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio-visual End-to-end Multi-channel Speech Separation, Dereverberation and Recognition

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.02909v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:30.910689+00:00

## Notes

[2307.02909v1] Audio-visual End-to-end Multi-channel Speech Separation, Dereverberation and Recognition Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2307.02909v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2307.02909v1 (eess) [Submitted on 6 Jul 2023] Title: Audio-visual End-to-end Multi-channel Speech Separation, Dereverberation and Recognition Authors: Guinan Li , Jiajun Deng , Mengzhe Geng , Zengrui Jin , Tianzi Wang , Shujie Hu , Mingyu Cui , Helen Meng , Xunying Liu View a PDF of the paper titled Audio-visual End-to-end Multi-channel Speech Separation, Dereverberation and Recognition, by Guinan Li and 8 other authors View PDF Abstract: Accurate recognition of cocktail party speech containing overlapping speakers, noise and reverberation remains a highly challenging task to date. Motivated by the invariance of visual modality to acoustic signal corruption, an audio-visual multi-channel speech separation, dereverberation and recognition approach featuring a full incorporation of visual information into all system components is proposed in this paper. The efficacy of the video input is consistently demonstrated in mask-based MVDR speech separation, DNN-WPE or spectral mapping (SpecM) based speech dereverberation front-end and Conformer ASR back-end. Audio-visual integrated front-end architectures performing speech separation and dereverberation in a pipelined or joint fashion via mask-based WPD are investigated. The error cost mismatch between the speech enhancement front-end and ASR back-end components is minimized by end-to-end jointly fine-tuning using either the ASR cost function alone, or its interpolation with the speech enhancement loss. Experiments were conducted on the mixture overlapped and reverberant speech data constructed using simulation or replay of the Oxford LRS2 dataset. The proposed audio-visual multi-channel speech separation, dereverberation and recognition systems consistently outperformed the comparable audio-only baseline by 9.1% and 6.2% absolute (41.7% and 36.0% relative) word error rate (WER) reductions. Consistent speech enhancement improvements were also obtained on PESQ, STOI and SRMR scores. Comments: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2307.02909 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2307.02909v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.02909 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Guinan Li [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 6 Jul 2023 10:50:46 UTC (1,813 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio-visual End-to-end Multi-channel Speech Separation, Dereverberation and Recognition, by Guinan Li and 8 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
