<!-- source_type: articles -->
# An introduction to pitch strength in contemporary popular music analysis and production

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.07473v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:20.525631+00:00

## Notes

[2506.07473v4] An introduction to pitch strength in contemporary popular music analysis and production Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2506.07473v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2506.07473v4 (cs) [Submitted on 9 Jun 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 7 Jul 2025 (this version, v4)] Title: An introduction to pitch strength in contemporary popular music analysis and production Authors: Emmanuel Deruty View a PDF of the paper titled An introduction to pitch strength in contemporary popular music analysis and production, by Emmanuel Deruty View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Music information retrieval distinguishes between low- and high-level descriptions of music. Current generative AI models rely on text descriptions that are higher level than the controls familiar to studio musicians. Pitch strength, a low-level perceptual parameter of contemporary popular music, may be one feature that could make such AI models more suited to music production. Signal and perceptual analyses suggest that pitch strength (1) varies significantly across and inside songs; (2) contributes to both small- and large-scale structure; (3) contributes to the handling of polyphonic dissonance; and (4) may be a feature of upper harmonics made audible in a perspective of perceptual richness. Comments: In Music 2024, Innovation in Music Conference, 14-16 June, 2024, Kristiania University College, Oslo, Norway Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) MSC classes: 00A65 ACM classes: J.5 Cite as: arXiv:2506.07473 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2506.07473v4 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2506.07473 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Emmanuel Deruty [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 9 Jun 2025 06:47:26 UTC (4,486 KB) [v2] Tue, 10 Jun 2025 15:46:29 UTC (4,486 KB) [v3] Wed, 11 Jun 2025 06:10:16 UTC (4,487 KB) [v4] Mon, 7 Jul 2025 08:29:04 UTC (4,443 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled An introduction to pitch strength in contemporary popular music analysis and production, by Emmanuel Deruty View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-06 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
