<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Flow Smoothing and Denoising: Graph Signal Processing in the Edge-Space

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.02111v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:28.523655+00:00

## Notes

[1808.02111v1] Flow Smoothing and Denoising: Graph Signal Processing in the Edge-Space Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1808.02111v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Discrete Mathematics arXiv:1808.02111v1 (cs) [Submitted on 6 Aug 2018] Title: Flow Smoothing and Denoising: Graph Signal Processing in the Edge-Space Authors: Michael T. Schaub , Santiago Segarra View a PDF of the paper titled Flow Smoothing and Denoising: Graph Signal Processing in the Edge-Space, by Michael T. Schaub and Santiago Segarra View PDF Abstract: This paper focuses on devising graph signal processing tools for the treatment of data defined on the edges of a graph. We first show that conventional tools from graph signal processing may not be suitable for the analysis of such signals. More specifically, we discuss how the underlying notion of a `smooth signal' inherited from (the typically considered variants of) the graph Laplacian are not suitable when dealing with edge signals that encode a notion of flow. To overcome this limitation we introduce a class of filters based on the Edge-Laplacian, a special case of the Hodge-Laplacian for simplicial complexes of order one. We demonstrate how this Edge-Laplacian leads to low-pass filters that enforce (approximate) flow-conservation in the processed signals. Moreover, we show how these new filters can be combined with more classical Laplacian-based processing methods on the line-graph. Finally, we illustrate the developed tools by denoising synthetic traffic flows on the London street network. Comments: 5 pages, 2 figure Subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM) ; Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Signal Processing (eess.SP); Systems and Control (eess.SY) Cite as: arXiv:1808.02111 [cs.DM] (or arXiv:1808.02111v1 [cs.DM] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1808.02111 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 2018 IEEE Global Conference on Signal and Information Processing (GlobalSIP), Anaheim, CA, USA, 2018, pp. 735-739 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/GlobalSIP.2018.8646701 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Michael Schaub [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 6 Aug 2018 20:59:58 UTC (163 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Flow Smoothing and Denoising: Graph Signal Processing in the Edge-Space, by Michael T. Schaub and Santiago Segarra View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.DM < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.SI cs.SY eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Michael T. Schaub Santiago Segarra export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
