<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Joint Music and Language Attention Models for Zero-shot Music Tagging

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10159v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:36.363543+00:00

## Notes

[2310.10159v1] Joint Music and Language Attention Models for Zero-shot Music Tagging Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2310.10159v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2310.10159v1 (cs) [Submitted on 16 Oct 2023] Title: Joint Music and Language Attention Models for Zero-shot Music Tagging Authors: Xingjian Du , Zhesong Yu , Jiaju Lin , Bilei Zhu , Qiuqiang Kong View a PDF of the paper titled Joint Music and Language Attention Models for Zero-shot Music Tagging, by Xingjian Du and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Music tagging is a task to predict the tags of music recordings. However, previous music tagging research primarily focuses on close-set music tagging tasks which can not be generalized to new tags. In this work, we propose a zero-shot music tagging system modeled by a joint music and language attention (JMLA) model to address the open-set music tagging problem. The JMLA model consists of an audio encoder modeled by a pretrained masked autoencoder and a decoder modeled by a Falcon7B. We introduce preceiver resampler to convert arbitrary length audio into fixed length embeddings. We introduce dense attention connections between encoder and decoder layers to improve the information flow between the encoder and decoder layers. We collect a large-scale music and description dataset from the internet. We propose to use ChatGPT to convert the raw descriptions into formalized and diverse descriptions to train the JMLA models. Our proposed JMLA system achieves a zero-shot audio tagging accuracy of $ 64.82\% $ on the GTZAN dataset, outperforming previous zero-shot systems and achieves comparable results to previous systems on the FMA and the MagnaTagATune datasets. Comments: \begin{keywords} Music tagging, joint music and language attention models, Music Foundation Model. \end{keywords} Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2310.10159 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2310.10159v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.10159 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Xingjian Du [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 16 Oct 2023 08:00:16 UTC (1,163 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Joint Music and Language Attention Models for Zero-shot Music Tagging, by Xingjian Du and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
