<!-- source_type: articles -->
# C Implementation & comparison of companding & silence audio compression techniques

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.3275v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:10.032609+00:00

## Notes

[1004.3275v1] C Implementation & comparison of companding & silence audio compression techniques Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1004.3275v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Multimedia arXiv:1004.3275v1 (cs) [Submitted on 19 Apr 2010] Title: C Implementation & comparison of companding & silence audio compression techniques Authors: Kruti Dangarwala , Jigar Shah View a PDF of the paper titled C Implementation & comparison of companding & silence audio compression techniques, by Kruti Dangarwala and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Just about all the newest living room audio-video electronics and PC multimedia products being designed today will incorporate some form of compressed digitized-audio processing capability. Audio compression reduces the bit rate required to represent an analog audio signal while maintaining the perceived audio quality. Discarding inaudible data reduces the storage, transmission and compute requirements of handling high-quality audio files. This paper covers wave audio file format & algorithm of silence compression method and companding method to compress and decompress wave audio file. Then it compares the result of these two methods. Comments: International Journal of Computer Science Issues online at this http URL Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM) Cite as: arXiv:1004.3275 [cs.MM] (or arXiv:1004.3275v1 [cs.MM] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1004.3275 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IJCSI, Volume 7, Issue 2, March 2010 Submission history From: Vishal Goyal [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 19 Apr 2010 18:26:09 UTC (130 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled C Implementation & comparison of companding & silence audio compression techniques, by Kruti Dangarwala and 1 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.MM < prev | next > new | recent | 2010-04 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Kruti Dangarwala Jigar Shah export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
