<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Graph Signal Processing and Deep Learning: Convolution, Pooling, and Topology

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2008.01247v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:49.612592+00:00

## Notes

[2008.01247v1] Graph Signal Processing and Deep Learning: Convolution, Pooling, and Topology Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2008.01247v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2008.01247v1 (eess) [Submitted on 4 Aug 2020] Title: Graph Signal Processing and Deep Learning: Convolution, Pooling, and Topology Authors: Mark Cheung , John Shi , Oren Wright , Lavender Y. Jiang , Xujin Liu , José M.F. Moura View a PDF of the paper titled Graph Signal Processing and Deep Learning: Convolution, Pooling, and Topology, by Mark Cheung and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Deep learning, particularly convolutional neural networks (CNNs), have yielded rapid, significant improvements in computer vision and related domains. But conventional deep learning architectures perform poorly when data have an underlying graph structure, as in social, biological, and many other domains. This paper explores 1)how graph signal processing (GSP) can be used to extend CNN components to graphs in order to improve model performance; and 2)how to design the graph CNN architecture based on the topology or structure of the data graph. Comments: To be published on IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2008.01247 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2008.01247v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2008.01247 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2020.3014594 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Lavender Yao Jiang [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 4 Aug 2020 00:03:23 UTC (3,575 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Graph Signal Processing and Deep Learning: Convolution, Pooling, and Topology, by Mark Cheung and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-08 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
