<!-- source_type: articles -->
# GraphMuse: A Library for Symbolic Music Graph Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.12671v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:07.708342+00:00

## Notes

[2407.12671v1] GraphMuse: A Library for Symbolic Music Graph Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2407.12671v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2407.12671v1 (cs) [Submitted on 17 Jul 2024] Title: GraphMuse: A Library for Symbolic Music Graph Processing Authors: Emmanouil Karystinaios , Gerhard Widmer View a PDF of the paper titled GraphMuse: A Library for Symbolic Music Graph Processing, by Emmanouil Karystinaios and Gerhard Widmer View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have recently gained traction in symbolic music tasks, yet a lack of a unified framework impedes progress. Addressing this gap, we present GraphMuse, a graph processing framework and library that facilitates efficient music graph processing and GNN training for symbolic music tasks. Central to our contribution is a new neighbor sampling technique specifically targeted toward meaningful behavior in musical scores. Additionally, GraphMuse integrates hierarchical modeling elements that augment the expressivity and capabilities of graph networks for musical tasks. Experiments with two specific musical prediction tasks -- pitch spelling and cadence detection -- demonstrate significant performance improvement over previous methods. Our hope is that GraphMuse will lead to a boost in, and standardization of, symbolic music processing based on graph representations. The library is available at this https URL Comments: Accepted at the 25th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2024) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Digital Libraries (cs.DL); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2407.12671 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2407.12671v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.12671 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Emmanouil Karystinaios [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 17 Jul 2024 15:54:09 UTC (5,295 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled GraphMuse: A Library for Symbolic Music Graph Processing, by Emmanouil Karystinaios and Gerhard Widmer View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.DL eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
