<!-- source_type: articles -->
# The Shape of RemiXXXes to Come: Audio Texture Synthesis with Time-frequency Scattering

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1906.09334v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:14.989240+00:00

## Notes

[1906.09334v2] The Shape of RemiXXXes to Come: Audio Texture Synthesis with Time-frequency Scattering Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1906.09334v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1906.09334v2 (cs) [Submitted on 21 Jun 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 29 Jun 2019 (this version, v2)] Title: The Shape of RemiXXXes to Come: Audio Texture Synthesis with Time-frequency Scattering Authors: Vincent Lostanlen , Florian Hecker View a PDF of the paper titled The Shape of RemiXXXes to Come: Audio Texture Synthesis with Time-frequency Scattering, by Vincent Lostanlen and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: This article explains how to apply time--frequency scattering, a convolutional operator extracting modulations in the time--frequency domain at different rates and scales, to the re-synthesis and manipulation of audio textures. After implementing phase retrieval in the scattering network by gradient backpropagation, we introduce scale--rate DAFx, a class of audio transformations expressed in the domain of time--frequency scattering coefficients. One example of scale--rate DAFx is chirp rate inversion, which causes each sonic event to be locally reversed in time while leaving the arrow of time globally unchanged. Over the past two years, our work has led to the creation of four electroacoustic pieces: ``FAVN''; ``Modulator (Scattering Transform)''; ``Experimental Palimpsest''; ``Inspection''; and a remix of Lorenzo Senni's ``XAllegroX'', released by Warp Records on a vinyl entitled ``The Shape of RemiXXXes to Come''. The source code to reproduce experiments and figures is made freely available at: this https URL . A companion website containing demos is at: this https URL Comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. To appear in the proceedings of the International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (DAFX-19), Birmingham, UK Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1906.09334 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1906.09334v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1906.09334 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Vincent Lostanlen [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 21 Jun 2019 21:25:55 UTC (1,746 KB) [v2] Sat, 29 Jun 2019 14:25:26 UTC (1,746 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled The Shape of RemiXXXes to Come: Audio Texture Synthesis with Time-frequency Scattering, by Vincent Lostanlen and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Vincent Lostanlen Florian Hecker export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
