<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Music Gesture for Visual Sound Separation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09476v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:39.716058+00:00

## Notes

[2004.09476v1] Music Gesture for Visual Sound Separation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2004.09476v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition arXiv:2004.09476v1 (cs) [Submitted on 20 Apr 2020] Title: Music Gesture for Visual Sound Separation Authors: Chuang Gan , Deng Huang , Hang Zhao , Joshua B. Tenenbaum , Antonio Torralba View a PDF of the paper titled Music Gesture for Visual Sound Separation, by Chuang Gan and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Recent deep learning approaches have achieved impressive performance on visual sound separation tasks. However, these approaches are mostly built on appearance and optical flow like motion feature representations, which exhibit limited abilities to find the correlations between audio signals and visual points, especially when separating multiple instruments of the same types, such as multiple violins in a scene. To address this, we propose "Music Gesture," a keypoint-based structured representation to explicitly model the body and finger movements of musicians when they perform music. We first adopt a context-aware graph network to integrate visual semantic context with body dynamics, and then apply an audio-visual fusion model to associate body movements with the corresponding audio signals. Experimental results on three music performance datasets show: 1) strong improvements upon benchmark metrics for hetero-musical separation tasks (i.e. different instruments); 2) new ability for effective homo-musical separation for piano, flute, and trumpet duets, which to our best knowledge has never been achieved with alternative methods. Project page: this http URL . Comments: CVPR 2020. Project page: this http URL Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2004.09476 [cs.CV] (or arXiv:2004.09476v1 [cs.CV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2004.09476 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Chuang Gan [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 20 Apr 2020 17:53:46 UTC (8,968 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Music Gesture for Visual Sound Separation, by Chuang Gan and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CV < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.MM cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Chuang Gan Hang Zhao Joshua B. Tenenbaum Antonio Torralba export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
