<!-- source_type: articles -->
# musif: a Python package for symbolic music feature extraction

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01120v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:43.133270+00:00

## Notes

[2307.01120v1] musif: a Python package for symbolic music feature extraction Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2307.01120v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2307.01120v1 (cs) [Submitted on 3 Jul 2023] Title: musif: a Python package for symbolic music feature extraction Authors: Ana Llorens , Federico Simonetta , Martín Serrano , Álvaro Torrente View a PDF of the paper titled musif: a Python package for symbolic music feature extraction, by Ana Llorens and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this work, we introduce musif, a Python package that facilitates the automatic extraction of features from symbolic music scores. The package includes the implementation of a large number of features, which have been developed by a team of experts in musicology, music theory, statistics, and computer science. Additionally, the package allows for the easy creation of custom features using commonly available Python libraries. musif is primarily geared towards processing high-quality musicological data encoded in MusicXML format, but also supports other formats commonly used in music information retrieval tasks, including MIDI, MEI, Kern, and others. We provide comprehensive documentation and tutorials to aid in the extension of the framework and to facilitate the introduction of new and inexperienced users to its usage. Comments: Published at the Sound and Music Computing Conference 2023 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2307.01120 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2307.01120v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.01120 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 20th Sound and Music Computing Conference (SMC 2023) , Stockholm, Sweden, 15-17 June 2023 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.13359873 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Federico Simonetta [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 3 Jul 2023 15:49:15 UTC (599 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled musif: a Python package for symbolic music feature extraction, by Ana Llorens and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
