<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Hyperbolic Audio Source Separation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2212.05008v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:33.231597+00:00

## Notes

[2212.05008v1] Hyperbolic Audio Source Separation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2212.05008v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2212.05008v1 (eess) [Submitted on 9 Dec 2022] Title: Hyperbolic Audio Source Separation Authors: Darius Petermann , Gordon Wichern , Aswin Subramanian , Jonathan Le Roux View a PDF of the paper titled Hyperbolic Audio Source Separation, by Darius Petermann and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: We introduce a framework for audio source separation using embeddings on a hyperbolic manifold that compactly represent the hierarchical relationship between sound sources and time-frequency features. Inspired by recent successes modeling hierarchical relationships in text and images with hyperbolic embeddings, our algorithm obtains a hyperbolic embedding for each time-frequency bin of a mixture signal and estimates masks using hyperbolic softmax layers. On a synthetic dataset containing mixtures of multiple people talking and musical instruments playing, our hyperbolic model performed comparably to a Euclidean baseline in terms of source to distortion ratio, with stronger performance at low embedding dimensions. Furthermore, we find that time-frequency regions containing multiple overlapping sources are embedded towards the center (i.e., the most uncertain region) of the hyperbolic space, and we can use this certainty estimate to efficiently trade-off between artifact introduction and interference reduction when isolating individual sounds. Comments: Submitted to ICASSP 2023, Demo page: this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2212.05008 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2212.05008v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2212.05008 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Darius Petermann [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 9 Dec 2022 17:47:48 UTC (4,703 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Hyperbolic Audio Source Separation, by Darius Petermann and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
