<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multimodal Attention Merging for Improved Speech Recognition and Audio Event Classification

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14378v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:55.870284+00:00

## Notes

[2312.14378v2] Multimodal Attention Merging for Improved Speech Recognition and Audio Event Classification Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2312.14378v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2312.14378v2 (cs) [Submitted on 22 Dec 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Feb 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: Multimodal Attention Merging for Improved Speech Recognition and Audio Event Classification Authors: Anirudh S. Sundar , Chao-Han Huck Yang , David M. Chan , Shalini Ghosh , Venkatesh Ravichandran , Phani Sankar Nidadavolu View a PDF of the paper titled Multimodal Attention Merging for Improved Speech Recognition and Audio Event Classification, by Anirudh S. Sundar and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Training large foundation models using self-supervised objectives on unlabeled data, followed by fine-tuning on downstream tasks, has emerged as a standard procedure. Unfortunately, the efficacy of this approach is often constrained by both limited fine-tuning compute and scarcity in labeled downstream data. We introduce Multimodal Attention Merging (MAM), an attempt that facilitates direct knowledge transfer from attention matrices of models rooted in high resource modalities, text and images, to those in resource-constrained domains, speech and audio, employing a zero-shot paradigm. MAM reduces the relative Word Error Rate (WER) of an Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) model by up to 6.70%, and relative classification error of an Audio Event Classification (AEC) model by 10.63%. In cases where some data/compute is available, we present Learnable-MAM, a data-driven approach to merging attention matrices, resulting in a further 2.90% relative reduction in WER for ASR and 18.42% relative reduction in AEC compared to fine-tuning. Comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, ICASSP 2024 Workshop on Self-supervision in Audio, Speech and Beyond Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2312.14378 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2312.14378v2 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2312.14378 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Anirudh Sundar [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 22 Dec 2023 02:08:40 UTC (1,884 KB) [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 15:48:23 UTC (1,884 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multimodal Attention Merging for Improved Speech Recognition and Audio Event Classification, by Anirudh S. Sundar and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
