<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Word Embeddings for Automatic Equalization in Audio Mixing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2202.08898v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:27.707960+00:00

## Notes

[2202.08898v2] Word Embeddings for Automatic Equalization in Audio Mixing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2202.08898v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2202.08898v2 (cs) [Submitted on 17 Feb 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Sep 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Word Embeddings for Automatic Equalization in Audio Mixing Authors: Satvik Venkatesh , David Moffat , Eduardo Reck Miranda View a PDF of the paper titled Word Embeddings for Automatic Equalization in Audio Mixing, by Satvik Venkatesh and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: In recent years, machine learning has been widely adopted to automate the audio mixing process. Automatic mixing systems have been applied to various audio effects such as gain-adjustment, equalization, and reverberation. These systems can be controlled through visual interfaces, providing audio examples, using knobs, and semantic descriptors. Using semantic descriptors or textual information to control these systems is an effective way for artists to communicate their creative goals. In this paper, we explore the novel idea of using word embeddings to represent semantic descriptors. Word embeddings are generally obtained by training neural networks on large corpora of written text. These embeddings serve as the input layer of the neural network to create a translation from words to EQ settings. Using this technique, the machine learning model can also generate EQ settings for semantic descriptors that it has not seen before. We compare the EQ settings of humans with the predictions of the neural network to evaluate the quality of predictions. The results showed that the embedding layer enables the neural network to understand semantic descriptors. We observed that the models with embedding layers perform better than those without embedding layers, but still not as good as human labels. Comments: 10 pages, 5 Figures, 3 tables; More experimental validation; Published in the Journal of the Audio Engineering Society Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ACM classes: I.5.1; I.5.4 Cite as: arXiv:2202.08898 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2202.08898v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2202.08898 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: J.Audio.Eng.Soc. 70 (2022) 753-763 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.17743/jaes.2022.0047 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Satvik Venkatesh [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 17 Feb 2022 21:02:48 UTC (312 KB) [v2] Mon, 19 Sep 2022 21:28:52 UTC (2,224 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Word Embeddings for Automatic Equalization in Audio Mixing, by Satvik Venkatesh and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
