<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Semantic Audio-Visual Navigation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2012.11583v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:09.389590+00:00

## Notes

[2012.11583v2] Semantic Audio-Visual Navigation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2012.11583v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition arXiv:2012.11583v2 (cs) [Submitted on 21 Dec 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 7 Apr 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Semantic Audio-Visual Navigation Authors: Changan Chen , Ziad Al-Halah , Kristen Grauman View a PDF of the paper titled Semantic Audio-Visual Navigation, by Changan Chen and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Recent work on audio-visual navigation assumes a constantly-sounding target and restricts the role of audio to signaling the target's position. We introduce semantic audio-visual navigation, where objects in the environment make sounds consistent with their semantic meaning (e.g., toilet flushing, door creaking) and acoustic events are sporadic or short in duration. We propose a transformer-based model to tackle this new semantic AudioGoal task, incorporating an inferred goal descriptor that captures both spatial and semantic properties of the target. Our model's persistent multimodal memory enables it to reach the goal even long after the acoustic event stops. In support of the new task, we also expand the SoundSpaces audio simulations to provide semantically grounded sounds for an array of objects in Matterport3D. Our method strongly outperforms existing audio-visual navigation methods by learning to associate semantic, acoustic, and visual cues. Comments: Project page: this http URL Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Robotics (cs.RO); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2012.11583 [cs.CV] (or arXiv:2012.11583v2 [cs.CV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2012.11583 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Changan Chen [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 21 Dec 2020 18:59:04 UTC (854 KB) [v2] Wed, 7 Apr 2021 01:59:26 UTC (3,231 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Semantic Audio-Visual Navigation, by Changan Chen and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CV < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.RO cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Changan Chen Ziad Al-Halah Kristen Grauman export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
