<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Towards Goal-Oriented Semantic Signal Processing: Applications and Future Challenges

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.11885v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:23.670821+00:00

## Notes

[2109.11885v1] Towards Goal-Oriented Semantic Signal Processing: Applications and Future Challenges Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2109.11885v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2109.11885v1 (eess) [Submitted on 24 Sep 2021] Title: Towards Goal-Oriented Semantic Signal Processing: Applications and Future Challenges Authors: Mert Kalfa , Mehmetcan Gok , Arda Atalik , Busra Tegin , Tolga M. Duman , Orhan Arikan View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Goal-Oriented Semantic Signal Processing: Applications and Future Challenges, by Mert Kalfa and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Advances in machine learning technology have enabled real-time extraction of semantic information in signals which can revolutionize signal processing techniques and improve their performance significantly for the next generation of applications. With the objective of a concrete representation and efficient processing of the semantic information, we propose and demonstrate a formal graph-based semantic language and a goal filtering method that enables goal-oriented signal processing. The proposed semantic signal processing framework can easily be tailored for specific applications and goals in a diverse range of signal processing applications. To illustrate its wide range of applicability, we investigate several use cases and provide details on how the proposed goal-oriented semantic signal processing framework can be customized. We also investigate and propose techniques for communications where sensor data is semantically processed and semantic information is exchanged across a sensor network. Comments: 44 pages, 29 figures, 3 tables. This preprint will be published in the Digital Signal Processing Journal's 30th anniversary issue on Future Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2109.11885 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2109.11885v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2109.11885 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Digital Signal Processing, 2021, 103134. ISSN 1051-2004 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2021.103134 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Mert Kalfa [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 24 Sep 2021 11:12:24 UTC (9,414 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Goal-Oriented Semantic Signal Processing: Applications and Future Challenges, by Mert Kalfa and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-09 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
