<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Improving Polyphonic Music Models with Feature-Rich Encoding

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.11775v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:23.068113+00:00

## Notes

[1911.11775v3] Improving Polyphonic Music Models with Feature-Rich Encoding Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1911.11775v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1911.11775v3 (cs) [Submitted on 26 Nov 2019 ( v1 ), last revised 14 Sep 2020 (this version, v3)] Title: Improving Polyphonic Music Models with Feature-Rich Encoding Authors: Omar Peracha View a PDF of the paper titled Improving Polyphonic Music Models with Feature-Rich Encoding, by Omar Peracha View PDF Abstract: This paper explores sequential modelling of polyphonic music with deep neural networks. While recent breakthroughs have focussed on network architecture, we demonstrate that the representation of the sequence can make an equally significant contribution to the performance of the model as measured by validation set loss. By extracting salient features inherent to the training dataset, the model can either be conditioned on these features or trained to predict said features as extra components of the sequences being modelled. We show that training a neural network to predict a seemingly more complex sequence, with extra features included in the series being modelled, can improve overall model performance significantly. We first introduce TonicNet, a GRU-based model trained to initially predict the chord at a given time-step before then predicting the notes of each voice at that time-step, in contrast with the typical approach of predicting only the notes. We then evaluate TonicNet on the canonical JSB Chorales dataset and obtain state-of-the-art results. Comments: Proceedings of the 21st International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, ISMIR 2020 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) MSC classes: 68T99 Cite as: arXiv:1911.11775 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1911.11775v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1911.11775 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proceedings of the 21st International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, ISMIR 2020 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4245396 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Omar Peracha [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 26 Nov 2019 18:38:30 UTC (197 KB) [v2] Mon, 3 Aug 2020 21:54:24 UTC (201 KB) [v3] Mon, 14 Sep 2020 22:18:36 UTC (289 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Improving Polyphonic Music Models with Feature-Rich Encoding, by Omar Peracha View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
