<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Flexible framework for audio reconstruction

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2004.11162v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:20.101604+00:00

## Notes

[2004.11162v2] Flexible framework for audio reconstruction Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2004.11162v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2004.11162v2 (eess) [Submitted on 23 Apr 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 29 Jul 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: Flexible framework for audio reconstruction Authors: Ondřej Mokrý , Pavel Rajmic , Pavel Záviška View a PDF of the paper titled Flexible framework for audio reconstruction, by Ond\v{r}ej Mokr\'y and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: The paper presents a unified, flexible framework for the tasks of audio inpainting, declipping, and dequantization. The concept is further extended to cover analogous degradation models in a transformed domain, e.g. quantization of the signal's time-frequency coefficients. The task of reconstructing an audio signal from degraded observations in two different domains is formulated as an inverse problem, and several algorithmic solutions are developed. The viability of the presented concept is demonstrated on an example where audio reconstruction from partial and quantized observations of both the time-domain signal and its time-frequency coefficients is carried out. Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2004.11162 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2004.11162v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2004.11162 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 23rd International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (eDAFx2020) Submission history From: Ondřej Mokrý [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 23 Apr 2020 13:53:45 UTC (1,288 KB) [v2] Wed, 29 Jul 2020 13:17:57 UTC (1,026 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Flexible framework for audio reconstruction, by Ond\v{r}ej Mokr\'y and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
