<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Brain Foundation Models: A Survey on Advancements in Neural Signal Processing and Brain Discovery

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00580v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:53.251183+00:00

## Notes

[2503.00580v2] Brain Foundation Models: A Survey on Advancements in Neural Signal Processing and Brain Discovery Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2503.00580v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2503.00580v2 (cs) [Submitted on 1 Mar 2025 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Jul 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Brain Foundation Models: A Survey on Advancements in Neural Signal Processing and Brain Discovery Authors: Xinliang Zhou , Chenyu Liu , Zhisheng Chen , Kun Wang , Yi Ding , Ziyu Jia , Qingsong Wen View a PDF of the paper titled Brain Foundation Models: A Survey on Advancements in Neural Signal Processing and Brain Discovery, by Xinliang Zhou and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Brain foundation models (BFMs) have emerged as a transformative paradigm in computational neuroscience, offering a revolutionary framework for processing diverse neural signals across different brain-related tasks. These models leverage large-scale pre-training techniques, allowing them to generalize effectively across multiple scenarios, tasks, and modalities, thus overcoming the traditional limitations faced by conventional artificial intelligence (AI) approaches in understanding complex brain data. By tapping into the power of pretrained models, BFMs provide a means to process neural data in a more unified manner, enabling advanced analysis and discovery in the field of neuroscience. In this survey, we define BFMs for the first time, providing a clear and concise framework for constructing and utilizing these models in various applications. We also examine the key principles and methodologies for developing these models, shedding light on how they transform the landscape of neural signal processing. This survey presents a comprehensive review of the latest advancements in BFMs, covering the most recent methodological innovations, novel views of application areas, and challenges in the field. Notably, we highlight the future directions and key challenges that need to be addressed to fully realize the potential of BFMs. These challenges include improving the quality of brain data, optimizing model architecture for better generalization, increasing training efficiency, and enhancing the interpretability and robustness of BFMs in real-world applications. Comments: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2503.00580 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2503.00580v2 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2503.00580 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Xinliang Zhou [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 1 Mar 2025 18:12:50 UTC (8,419 KB) [v2] Sat, 19 Jul 2025 09:40:27 UTC (5,949 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Brain Foundation Models: A Survey on Advancements in Neural Signal Processing and Brain Discovery, by Xinliang Zhou and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-03 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
