<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Online incremental learning for audio classification using a pretrained audio model

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2508.20732v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:40.613533+00:00

## Notes

[2508.20732v1] Online incremental learning for audio classification using a pretrained audio model Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2508.20732v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2508.20732v1 (eess) [Submitted on 28 Aug 2025] Title: Online incremental learning for audio classification using a pretrained audio model Authors: Manjunath Mulimani , Annamaria Mesaros View a PDF of the paper titled Online incremental learning for audio classification using a pretrained audio model, by Manjunath Mulimani and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Incremental learning aims to learn new tasks sequentially without forgetting the previously learned ones. Most of the existing incremental learning methods for audio focus on training the model from scratch on the initial task, and the same model is used to learn upcoming incremental tasks. The model is trained for several iterations to adapt to each new task, using some specific approaches to reduce the forgetting of old tasks. In this work, we propose a method for using generalizable audio embeddings produced by a pre-trained model to develop an online incremental learner that solves sequential audio classification tasks over time. Specifically, we inject a layer with a nonlinear activation function between the pre-trained model's audio embeddings and the classifier; this layer expands the dimensionality of the embeddings and effectively captures the distinct characteristics of sound classes. Our method adapts the model in a single forward pass (online) through the training samples of any task, with minimal forgetting of old tasks. We demonstrate the performance of the proposed method in two incremental learning setups: one class-incremental learning using ESC-50 and one domain-incremental learning of different cities from the TAU Urban Acoustic Scenes 2019 dataset; for both cases, the proposed approach outperforms other methods. Comments: Accepted to IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA) 2025 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2508.20732 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2508.20732v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2508.20732 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Manjunath Mulimani [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 28 Aug 2025 12:55:26 UTC (583 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Online incremental learning for audio classification using a pretrained audio model, by Manjunath Mulimani and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-08 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
