<!-- source_type: articles -->
# On the mixing coefficients of piecewise monotonic maps

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0408205v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:20.175387+00:00

## Notes

[math/0408205v4] On the mixing coefficients of piecewise monotonic maps Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > math > arXiv:math/0408205v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Mathematics > Dynamical Systems arXiv:math/0408205v4 (math) [Submitted on 16 Aug 2004 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Nov 2006 (this version, v4)] Title: On the mixing coefficients of piecewise monotonic maps Authors: Jon Aaronson , Hitoshi Nakada View a PDF of the paper titled On the mixing coefficients of piecewise monotonic maps, by Jon Aaronson and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: We investigate the mixing coefficients of interval maps satisfying Rychlik's conditions. A mixing Lasota-Yorke map is reverse $\phi$-mixing. If its invariant density is uniformly bounded away from 0, it is $\phi$-mixing iff all images of all orders are big in which case it is $\psi$-mixing. Among $\b$-transformations, non-$\phi$-mixing is generic. In this sense, the asymmetry of $\phi$-mixing is natural. Comments: correction of misprint in the definition of weak mixing Subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS) ; Probability (math.PR) MSC classes: 37A25, 37E05 (37D20, 37C30, 37C40, 60G10) Cite as: arXiv:math/0408205 [math.DS] (or arXiv:math/0408205v4 [math.DS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.math/0408205 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: as in: Probability in mathematics. Israel J. Math. 148 (2005), 1--10 Submission history From: Jon Aaronson [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 16 Aug 2004 09:08:40 UTC (8 KB) [v2] Mon, 30 Aug 2004 12:39:17 UTC (8 KB) [v3] Sun, 12 Sep 2004 14:00:23 UTC (8 KB) [v4] Thu, 9 Nov 2006 21:21:21 UTC (8 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled On the mixing coefficients of piecewise monotonic maps, by Jon Aaronson and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: math.DS < prev | next > new | recent | 2004-08 References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
