<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Cross-domain Semi-Supervised Audio Event Classification Using Contrastive Regularization

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.14508v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:44.500897+00:00

## Notes

[2109.14508v1] Cross-domain Semi-Supervised Audio Event Classification Using Contrastive Regularization Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2109.14508v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2109.14508v1 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Sep 2021] Title: Cross-domain Semi-Supervised Audio Event Classification Using Contrastive Regularization Authors: Donmoon Lee , Kyogu Lee View a PDF of the paper titled Cross-domain Semi-Supervised Audio Event Classification Using Contrastive Regularization, by Donmoon Lee and Kyogu Lee View PDF Abstract: In this study, we proposed a novel semi-supervised training method that uses unlabeled data with a class distribution that is completely different from the target data or data without a target label. To this end, we introduce a contrastive regularization that is designed to be target task-oriented and trained simultaneously. In addition, we propose an audio mixing based simple augmentation strategy that performed in batch samples. Experimental results validate that the proposed method successfully contributed to the performance improvement, and particularly showed that it has advantages in stable training and generalization. Comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, and 2 tables. Accepted paper at IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA) 2021 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2109.14508 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2109.14508v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2109.14508 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Donmoon Lee [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 29 Sep 2021 15:43:12 UTC (2,085 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Cross-domain Semi-Supervised Audio Event Classification Using Contrastive Regularization, by Donmoon Lee and Kyogu Lee View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-09 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Donmoon Lee Kyogu Lee export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
