<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A signal processing interpretation of noise-reduction convolutional neural networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.13425v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:16.008899+00:00

## Notes

[2307.13425v1] A signal processing interpretation of noise-reduction convolutional neural networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2307.13425v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition arXiv:2307.13425v1 (cs) [Submitted on 25 Jul 2023] Title: A signal processing interpretation of noise-reduction convolutional neural networks Authors: Luis A. Zavala-Mondragón , Peter H.N. de With , Fons van der Sommen View a PDF of the paper titled A signal processing interpretation of noise-reduction convolutional neural networks, by Luis A. Zavala-Mondrag\'on and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Encoding-decoding CNNs play a central role in data-driven noise reduction and can be found within numerous deep-learning algorithms. However, the development of these CNN architectures is often done in ad-hoc fashion and theoretical underpinnings for important design choices is generally lacking. Up to this moment there are different existing relevant works that strive to explain the internal operation of these CNNs. Still, these ideas are either scattered and/or may require significant expertise to be accessible for a bigger audience. In order to open up this exciting field, this article builds intuition on the theory of deep convolutional framelets and explains diverse ED CNN architectures in a unified theoretical framework. By connecting basic principles from signal processing to the field of deep learning, this self-contained material offers significant guidance for designing robust and efficient novel CNN architectures. Comments: This article is currently accepted in IEEE Signal Processing Magazine (SPM) Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2307.13425 [cs.CV] (or arXiv:2307.13425v1 [cs.CV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.13425 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Luis Albert Zavala-Mondragón [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 25 Jul 2023 11:45:28 UTC (9,477 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A signal processing interpretation of noise-reduction convolutional neural networks, by Luis A. Zavala-Mondrag\'on and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CV < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.IV eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
