<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Receptive Field Regularization Techniques for Audio Classification and Tagging with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2105.12395v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:56.400582+00:00

## Notes

[2105.12395v1] Receptive Field Regularization Techniques for Audio Classification and Tagging with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2105.12395v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2105.12395v1 (cs) [Submitted on 26 May 2021] Title: Receptive Field Regularization Techniques for Audio Classification and Tagging with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Authors: Khaled Koutini , Hamid Eghbal-zadeh , Gerhard Widmer View a PDF of the paper titled Receptive Field Regularization Techniques for Audio Classification and Tagging with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks, by Khaled Koutini and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this paper, we study the performance of variants of well-known Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architectures on different audio tasks. We show that tuning the Receptive Field (RF) of CNNs is crucial to their generalization. An insufficient RF limits the CNN's ability to fit the training data. In contrast, CNNs with an excessive RF tend to over-fit the training data and fail to generalize to unseen testing data. As state-of-the-art CNN architectures-in computer vision and other domains-tend to go deeper in terms of number of layers, their RF size increases and therefore they degrade in performance in several audio classification and tagging tasks. We study well-known CNN architectures and how their building blocks affect their receptive field. We propose several systematic approaches to control the RF of CNNs and systematically test the resulting architectures on different audio classification and tagging tasks and datasets. The experiments show that regularizing the RF of CNNs using our proposed approaches can drastically improve the generalization of models, out-performing complex architectures and pre-trained models on larger datasets. The proposed CNNs achieve state-of-the-art results in multiple tasks, from acoustic scene classification to emotion and theme detection in music to instrument recognition, as demonstrated by top ranks in several pertinent challenges (DCASE, MediaEval). Comments: Accepted in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing. Code available: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2105.12395 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2105.12395v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2105.12395 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2021.3082307 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Khaled Koutini [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 26 May 2021 08:36:29 UTC (6,700 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Receptive Field Regularization Techniques for Audio Classification and Tagging with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks, by Khaled Koutini and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.NE eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Khaled Koutini Hamid Eghbal-zadeh Gerhard Widmer export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
