<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Digraph Signal Processing with Generalized Boundary Conditions

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2005.09762v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:32.069563+00:00

## Notes

[2005.09762v3] Digraph Signal Processing with Generalized Boundary Conditions Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2005.09762v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2005.09762v3 (eess) [Submitted on 19 May 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Feb 2021 (this version, v3)] Title: Digraph Signal Processing with Generalized Boundary Conditions Authors: Bastian Seifert , Markus Püschel View a PDF of the paper titled Digraph Signal Processing with Generalized Boundary Conditions, by Bastian Seifert and Markus P\"uschel View PDF Abstract: Signal processing on directed graphs (digraphs) is problematic, since the graph shift, and thus associated filters, are in general not diagonalizable. Furthermore, the Fourier transform in this case is now obtained from the Jordan decomposition, which may not be computable at all for large graphs. We propose a novel and general solution for this problem based on matrix perturbation theory: We design an algorithm that adds a small number of edges to a given digraph to destroy nontrivial Jordan blocks. The obtained digraph is then diagonalizable and yields, as we show, an approximate eigenbasis and Fourier transform for the original digraph. We explain why and how this construction can be viewed as generalized form of boundary conditions, a common practice in signal processing. Our experiments with random and real world graphs show that we can scale to graphs with a few thousands nodes, and obtain Fourier transforms that are close to orthogonal while still diagonalizing an intuitive notion of convolution. Our method works with adjacency and Laplacian shift and can be used as preprocessing step to enable further processing as we show with a prototypical Wiener filter application. Comments: 13 pages, 22 figures; final version accepted for publication in IEEE Trans. Signal Proc Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM) Cite as: arXiv:2005.09762 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2005.09762v3 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2005.09762 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, Vol. 69, pp. 1422-1437, 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2021.3051267 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Bastian Seifert [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 19 May 2020 21:26:30 UTC (4,995 KB) [v2] Tue, 24 Nov 2020 11:31:45 UTC (9,060 KB) [v3] Mon, 8 Feb 2021 10:02:13 UTC (10,067 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Digraph Signal Processing with Generalized Boundary Conditions, by Bastian Seifert and Markus P\"uschel View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.DM eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
