<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signed Graph Learning with Hidden Nodes

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.09120v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:00.215809+00:00

## Notes

[2509.09120v1] Signed Graph Learning with Hidden Nodes Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2509.09120v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2509.09120v1 (eess) [Submitted on 11 Sep 2025] Title: Signed Graph Learning with Hidden Nodes Authors: Rong Ye , Xue-Qin Jiang , Hui Feng , Jian Wang , Runhe Qiu View a PDF of the paper titled Signed Graph Learning with Hidden Nodes, by Rong Ye and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Signed graphs, which are characterized by both positive and negative edge weights, have recently attracted significant attention in the field of graph signal processing (GSP). Existing works on signed graph learning typically assume that all graph nodes are available. However, in some specific applications, only a subset of nodes can be observed while the remaining nodes stay hidden. To address this challenge, we propose a novel method for identifying signed graph that accounts for hidden nodes, termed \textit{signed graph learning with hidden nodes under column-sparsity regularization} (SGL-HNCS). Our method is based on the assumption that graph signals are smooth over signed graphs, i.e., signal values of two nodes connected by positive (negative) edges are similar (dissimilar). Rooted in this prior assumption, the topology inference of a signed graph is formulated as a constrained optimization problem with column-sparsity regularization, where the goal is to reconstruct the signed graph Laplacian matrix without disregarding the influence of hidden nodes. We solve the constrained optimization problem using a tailored block coordinate descent (BCD) approach. Experimental results using synthetic data and real-world data demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed SGL-HNCS method. Comments: 25 pages, 7 figures, published to Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2509.09120 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2509.09120v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2509.09120 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Signal Processing, vol 234, pp 109995, 2025 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2025.109995 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Rong Ye [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 11 Sep 2025 03:15:41 UTC (514 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signed Graph Learning with Hidden Nodes, by Rong Ye and 4 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-09 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
