<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Grid-Graph Signal Processing (Grid-GSP): A Graph Signal Processing Framework for the Power Grid

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2103.06068v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:59.140596+00:00

## Notes

[2103.06068v1] Grid-Graph Signal Processing (Grid-GSP): A Graph Signal Processing Framework for the Power Grid Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2103.06068v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2103.06068v1 (eess) [Submitted on 10 Mar 2021] Title: Grid-Graph Signal Processing (Grid-GSP): A Graph Signal Processing Framework for the Power Grid Authors: Raksha Ramakrishna , Anna Scaglione View a PDF of the paper titled Grid-Graph Signal Processing (Grid-GSP): A Graph Signal Processing Framework for the Power Grid, by Raksha Ramakrishna and Anna Scaglione View PDF Abstract: The underlying theme of this paper is to explore the various facets of power systems data through the lens of graph signal processing (GSP), laying down the foundations of the Grid-GSP framework. Grid-GSP provides an interpretation for the spatio-temporal properties of voltage phasor measurements, by showing how the well-known power systems modeling supports a generative low-pass graph filter model for the state variables, namely the voltage phasors. Using the model we formalize the empirical observation that voltage phasor measurement data lie in a low-dimensional subspace and tie their spatio-temporal structure to generator voltage dynamics. The Grid-GSP generative model is then successfully employed to investigate the problems pertaining to the grid of data sampling and interpolation, network inference, detection of anomalies and data compression. Numerical results on a large synthetic grid that mimics the real-grid of the state of Texas, ACTIVSg2000, and on real-world measurements from ISO-New England verify the efficacy of applying Grid-GSP methods to electric grid data. Comments: 15 Pages, under review in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2103.06068 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2103.06068v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2103.06068 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2021.3075145 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Raksha Ramakrishna [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 10 Mar 2021 14:14:45 UTC (3,305 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Grid-Graph Signal Processing (Grid-GSP): A Graph Signal Processing Framework for the Power Grid, by Raksha Ramakrishna and Anna Scaglione View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-03 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
