<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Make-An-Audio: Text-To-Audio Generation with Prompt-Enhanced Diffusion Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12661v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:30.784119+00:00

## Notes

[2301.12661v1] Make-An-Audio: Text-To-Audio Generation with Prompt-Enhanced Diffusion Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2301.12661v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2301.12661v1 (cs) [Submitted on 30 Jan 2023] Title: Make-An-Audio: Text-To-Audio Generation with Prompt-Enhanced Diffusion Models Authors: Rongjie Huang , Jiawei Huang , Dongchao Yang , Yi Ren , Luping Liu , Mingze Li , Zhenhui Ye , Jinglin Liu , Xiang Yin , Zhou Zhao View a PDF of the paper titled Make-An-Audio: Text-To-Audio Generation with Prompt-Enhanced Diffusion Models, by Rongjie Huang and 9 other authors View PDF Abstract: Large-scale multimodal generative modeling has created milestones in text-to-image and text-to-video generation. Its application to audio still lags behind for two main reasons: the lack of large-scale datasets with high-quality text-audio pairs, and the complexity of modeling long continuous audio data. In this work, we propose Make-An-Audio with a prompt-enhanced diffusion model that addresses these gaps by 1) introducing pseudo prompt enhancement with a distill-then-reprogram approach, it alleviates data scarcity with orders of magnitude concept compositions by using language-free audios; 2) leveraging spectrogram autoencoder to predict the self-supervised audio representation instead of waveforms. Together with robust contrastive language-audio pretraining (CLAP) representations, Make-An-Audio achieves state-of-the-art results in both objective and subjective benchmark evaluation. Moreover, we present its controllability and generalization for X-to-Audio with "No Modality Left Behind", for the first time unlocking the ability to generate high-definition, high-fidelity audios given a user-defined modality input. Audio samples are available at this https URL Comments: Audio samples are available at this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2301.12661 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2301.12661v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2301.12661 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Rongjie Huang [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 30 Jan 2023 04:44:34 UTC (1,960 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Make-An-Audio: Text-To-Audio Generation with Prompt-Enhanced Diffusion Models, by Rongjie Huang and 9 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
