<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signal Processing on Product Spaces

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2303.10495v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:16.505947+00:00

## Notes

[2303.10495v1] Signal Processing on Product Spaces Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2303.10495v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2303.10495v1 (eess) [Submitted on 18 Mar 2023] Title: Signal Processing on Product Spaces Authors: T. Mitchell Roddenberry , Vincent P. Grande , Florian Frantzen , Michael T. Schaub , Santiago Segarra View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing on Product Spaces, by T. Mitchell Roddenberry and Vincent P. Grande and Florian Frantzen and Michael T. Schaub and Santiago Segarra View PDF Abstract: We establish a framework for signal processing on product spaces of simplicial and cellular complexes. For simplicity, we focus on the product of two complexes representing time and space, although our results generalize naturally to products of simplicial complexes of arbitrary dimension. Our framework leverages the structure of the eigenmodes of the Hodge Laplacian of the product space to jointly filter along time and space. To this end, we provide a decomposition theorem of the Hodge Laplacian of the product space, which highlights how the product structure induces a decomposition of each eigenmode into a spatial and temporal component. Finally, we apply our method to real world data, specifically for interpolating trajectories of buoys in the ocean from a limited set of observed trajectories. Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2303.10495 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2303.10495v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2303.10495 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: ICASSP 2023 - 2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), Rhodes Island, Greece, 2023, pp. 1-5 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/ICASSP49357.2023.10095735 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: T. Mitchell Roddenberry [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 18 Mar 2023 20:38:14 UTC (760 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing on Product Spaces, by T. Mitchell Roddenberry and Vincent P. Grande and Florian Frantzen and Michael T. Schaub and Santiago Segarra View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-03 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
