<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Real-Time Audio-to-Score Alignment of Music Performances Containing Errors and Arbitrary Repeats and Skips

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.07748v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:49.029645+00:00

## Notes

[1512.07748v1] Real-Time Audio-to-Score Alignment of Music Performances Containing Errors and Arbitrary Repeats and Skips Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1512.07748v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1512.07748v1 (cs) [Submitted on 24 Dec 2015] Title: Real-Time Audio-to-Score Alignment of Music Performances Containing Errors and Arbitrary Repeats and Skips Authors: Tomohiko Nakamura , Eita Nakamura , Shigeki Sagayama View a PDF of the paper titled Real-Time Audio-to-Score Alignment of Music Performances Containing Errors and Arbitrary Repeats and Skips, by Tomohiko Nakamura and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper discusses real-time alignment of audio signals of music performance to the corresponding score (a.k.a. score following) which can handle tempo changes, errors and arbitrary repeats and/or skips (repeats/skips) in performances. This type of score following is particularly useful in automatic accompaniment for practices and rehearsals, where errors and repeats/skips are often made. Simple extensions of the algorithms previously proposed in the literature are not applicable in these situations for scores of practical length due to the problem of large computational complexity. To cope with this problem, we present two hidden Markov models of monophonic performance with errors and arbitrary repeats/skips, and derive efficient score-following algorithms with an assumption that the prior probability distributions of score positions before and after repeats/skips are independent from each other. We confirmed real-time operation of the algorithms with music scores of practical length (around 10000 notes) on a modern laptop and their tracking ability to the input performance within 0.7 s on average after repeats/skips in clarinet performance data. Further improvements and extension for polyphonic signals are also discussed. Comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, version accepted in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM) Cite as: arXiv:1512.07748 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1512.07748v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1512.07748 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing ( Volume: 24, Issue: 2, February 2016) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2015.2507862 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Tomohiko Nakamura [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 24 Dec 2015 08:21:48 UTC (592 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Real-Time Audio-to-Score Alignment of Music Performances Containing Errors and Arbitrary Repeats and Skips, by Tomohiko Nakamura and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2015-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.MM References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Tomohiko Nakamura Eita Nakamura Shigeki Sagayama export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
