<!-- source_type: articles -->
# An Initial Investigation for Detecting Vocoder Fingerprints of Fake Audio

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2208.09646v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:33.754996+00:00

## Notes

[2208.09646v1] An Initial Investigation for Detecting Vocoder Fingerprints of Fake Audio Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2208.09646v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2208.09646v1 (cs) [Submitted on 20 Aug 2022] Title: An Initial Investigation for Detecting Vocoder Fingerprints of Fake Audio Authors: Xinrui Yan , Jiangyan Yi , Jianhua Tao , Chenglong Wang , Haoxin Ma , Tao Wang , Shiming Wang , Ruibo Fu View a PDF of the paper titled An Initial Investigation for Detecting Vocoder Fingerprints of Fake Audio, by Xinrui Yan and 7 other authors View PDF Abstract: Many effective attempts have been made for fake audio detection. However, they can only provide detection results but no countermeasures to curb this harm. For many related practical applications, what model or algorithm generated the fake audio also is needed. Therefore, We propose a new problem for detecting vocoder fingerprints of fake audio. Experiments are conducted on the datasets synthesized by eight state-of-the-art vocoders. We have preliminarily explored the features and model architectures. The t-SNE visualization shows that different vocoders generate distinct vocoder fingerprints. Comments: Accepted by ACM Multimedia 2022 Workshop: First International Workshop on Deepfake Detection for Audio Multimedia Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2208.09646 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2208.09646v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2208.09646 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1145/3552466.3556525 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Xinrui Yan [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 20 Aug 2022 09:23:21 UTC (4,698 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled An Initial Investigation for Detecting Vocoder Fingerprints of Fake Audio, by Xinrui Yan and 7 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
