<!-- source_type: articles -->
# An Improved Metric of Informational Masking for Perceptual Audio Quality Measurement

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.06656v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:53.108085+00:00

## Notes

[2307.06656v1] An Improved Metric of Informational Masking for Perceptual Audio Quality Measurement Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2307.06656v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2307.06656v1 (eess) [Submitted on 13 Jul 2023] Title: An Improved Metric of Informational Masking for Perceptual Audio Quality Measurement Authors: Pablo M. Delgado , Jürgen Herre View a PDF of the paper titled An Improved Metric of Informational Masking for Perceptual Audio Quality Measurement, by Pablo M. Delgado and J\"urgen Herre View PDF Abstract: Perceptual audio quality measurement systems algorithmically analyze the output of audio processing systems to estimate possible perceived quality degradation using perceptual models of human audition. In this manner, they save the time and resources associated with the design and execution of listening tests (LTs). Models of disturbance audibility predicting peripheral auditory masking in quality measurement systems have considerably increased subjective quality prediction performance of signals processed by perceptual audio codecs. Additionally, cognitive effects have also been known to regulate perceived distortion severity by influencing their salience. However, the performance gains due to cognitive effect models in quality measurement systems were inconsistent so far, particularly for music signals. Firstly, this paper presents an improved model of informational masking (IM) -- an important cognitive effect in quality perception -- that considers disturbance information complexity around the masking threshold. Secondly, we incorporate the proposed IM metric into a quality measurement systems using a novel interaction analysis procedure between cognitive effects and distortion metrics. The procedure establishes interactions between cognitive effects and distortion metrics using LT data. The proposed IM metric is shown to outperform previously proposed IM metrics in a validation task against subjective quality scores from large and diverse LT databases. Particularly, the proposed system showed an increased quality prediction of music signals coded with bandwidth extension techniques, where other models frequently fail. Comments: Accepted Publication for WASPAA 2023 - IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics, Mohonk Mountain House, New Paltz, NY, USA, Oct 22-25, 2023 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) ACM classes: I.2.6; H.4.3 Cite as: arXiv:2307.06656 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2307.06656v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.06656 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Pablo Delgado M. [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 13 Jul 2023 09:59:09 UTC (108 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled An Improved Metric of Informational Masking for Perceptual Audio Quality Measurement, by Pablo M. Delgado and J\"urgen Herre View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
