<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Zero-Shot Audio Classification via Semantic Embeddings

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2011.12133v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:31.688058+00:00

## Notes

[2011.12133v2] Zero-Shot Audio Classification via Semantic Embeddings Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2011.12133v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2011.12133v2 (eess) [Submitted on 24 Nov 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 11 Feb 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Zero-Shot Audio Classification via Semantic Embeddings Authors: Huang Xie , Tuomas Virtanen View a PDF of the paper titled Zero-Shot Audio Classification via Semantic Embeddings, by Huang Xie and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this paper, we study zero-shot learning in audio classification via semantic embeddings extracted from textual labels and sentence descriptions of sound classes. Our goal is to obtain a classifier that is capable of recognizing audio instances of sound classes that have no available training samples, but only semantic side information. We employ a bilinear compatibility framework to learn an acoustic-semantic projection between intermediate-level representations of audio instances and sound classes, i.e., acoustic embeddings and semantic embeddings. We use VGGish to extract deep acoustic embeddings from audio clips, and pre-trained language models (Word2Vec, GloVe, BERT) to generate either label embeddings from textual labels or sentence embeddings from sentence descriptions of sound classes. Audio classification is performed by a linear compatibility function that measures how compatible an acoustic embedding and a semantic embedding are. We evaluate the proposed method on a small balanced dataset ESC-50 and a large-scale unbalanced audio subset of AudioSet. The experimental results show that classification performance is significantly improved by involving sound classes that are semantically close to the test classes in training. Meanwhile, we demonstrate that both label embeddings and sentence embeddings are useful for zero-shot learning. Classification performance is improved by concatenating label/sentence embeddings generated with different language models. With their hybrid concatenations, the results are improved further. Comments: Submitted to Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2011.12133 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2011.12133v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2011.12133 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Huang Xie [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 24 Nov 2020 14:42:22 UTC (233 KB) [v2] Thu, 11 Feb 2021 12:19:11 UTC (238 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Zero-Shot Audio Classification via Semantic Embeddings, by Huang Xie and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-11 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
