<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Min-Max Framework for Majorization-Minimization Algorithms in Signal Processing Applications: An Overview

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07561v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:28.100528+00:00

## Notes

[2411.07561v1] Min-Max Framework for Majorization-Minimization Algorithms in Signal Processing Applications: An Overview Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2411.07561v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2411.07561v1 (eess) [Submitted on 12 Nov 2024] Title: Min-Max Framework for Majorization-Minimization Algorithms in Signal Processing Applications: An Overview Authors: Astha Saini , Petre Stoica , Prabhu Babu , Aakash Arora View a PDF of the paper titled Min-Max Framework for Majorization-Minimization Algorithms in Signal Processing Applications: An Overview, by Astha Saini and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This monograph presents a theoretical background and a broad introduction to the Min-Max Framework for Majorization-Minimization (MM4MM), an algorithmic methodology for solving minimization problems by formulating them as min-max problems and then employing majorization-minimization. The monograph lays out the mathematical basis of the approach used to reformulate a minimization problem as a min-max problem. With the prerequisites covered, including multiple illustrations of the formulations for convex and non-convex functions, this work serves as a guide for developing MM4MM-based algorithms for solving non-convex optimization problems in various areas of signal processing. As special cases, we discuss using the majorization-minimization technique to solve min-max problems encountered in signal processing applications and min-max problems formulated using the Lagrangian. Lastly, we present detailed examples of using MM4MM in ten signal processing applications such as phase retrieval, source localization, independent vector analysis, beamforming and optimal sensor placement in wireless sensor networks. The devised MM4MM algorithms are free of hyper-parameters and enjoy the advantages inherited from the use of the majorization-minimization technique such as monotonicity. Comments: 84 pages, no figures, published in Foundations and Trends in Signal Processing: Vol. 18: No. 4, pp 310-389. this http URL Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2411.07561 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2411.07561v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.07561 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Foundations and Trends in Signal Processing 2024: Vol. 18: No. 4, pp 310-389 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1561/2000000129 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Astha Saini [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 12 Nov 2024 05:30:04 UTC (374 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Min-Max Framework for Majorization-Minimization Algorithms in Signal Processing Applications: An Overview, by Astha Saini and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-11 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
