<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Methodology for Exploring Deep Convolutional Features in Relation to Hand-Crafted Features with an Application to Music Audio Modeling

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.00110v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:12.328771+00:00

## Notes

[2106.00110v2] A Methodology for Exploring Deep Convolutional Features in Relation to Hand-Crafted Features with an Application to Music Audio Modeling Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2106.00110v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2106.00110v2 (cs) [Submitted on 31 May 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 9 Oct 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: A Methodology for Exploring Deep Convolutional Features in Relation to Hand-Crafted Features with an Application to Music Audio Modeling Authors: Anna K. Yanchenko , Mohammadreza Soltani , Robert J. Ravier , Sayan Mukherjee , Vahid Tarokh View a PDF of the paper titled A Methodology for Exploring Deep Convolutional Features in Relation to Hand-Crafted Features with an Application to Music Audio Modeling, by Anna K. Yanchenko and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Understanding the features learned by deep models is important from a model trust perspective, especially as deep systems are deployed in the real world. Most recent approaches for deep feature understanding or model explanation focus on highlighting input data features that are relevant for classification decisions. In this work, we instead take the perspective of relating deep features to well-studied, hand-crafted features that are meaningful for the application of interest. We propose a methodology and set of systematic experiments for exploring deep features in this setting, where input feature importance approaches for deep feature understanding do not apply. Our experiments focus on understanding which hand-crafted and deep features are useful for the classification task of interest, how robust these features are for related tasks and how similar the deep features are to the meaningful hand-crafted features. Our proposed method is general to many application areas and we demonstrate its utility on orchestral music audio data. Comments: Code available at this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2106.00110 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2106.00110v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2106.00110 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Anna Yanchenko [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 31 May 2021 21:31:27 UTC (11,909 KB) [v2] Sat, 9 Oct 2021 15:56:49 UTC (12,466 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Methodology for Exploring Deep Convolutional Features in Relation to Hand-Crafted Features with an Application to Music Audio Modeling, by Anna K. Yanchenko and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Anna K. Yanchenko Mohammadreza Soltani Robert J. Ravier Sayan Mukherjee Vahid Tarokh export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
