<!-- source_type: articles -->
# EPG2S: Speech Generation and Speech Enhancement based on Electropalatography and Audio Signals using Multimodal Learning

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.07860v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:03.182083+00:00

## Notes

[2206.07860v1] EPG2S: Speech Generation and Speech Enhancement based on Electropalatography and Audio Signals using Multimodal Learning Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2206.07860v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2206.07860v1 (cs) [Submitted on 16 Jun 2022] Title: EPG2S: Speech Generation and Speech Enhancement based on Electropalatography and Audio Signals using Multimodal Learning Authors: Li-Chin Chen , Po-Hsun Chen , Richard Tzong-Han Tsai , Yu Tsao View a PDF of the paper titled EPG2S: Speech Generation and Speech Enhancement based on Electropalatography and Audio Signals using Multimodal Learning, by Li-Chin Chen and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Speech generation and enhancement based on articulatory movements facilitate communication when the scope of verbal communication is absent, e.g., in patients who have lost the ability to speak. Although various techniques have been proposed to this end, electropalatography (EPG), which is a monitoring technique that records contact between the tongue and hard palate during speech, has not been adequately explored. Herein, we propose a novel multimodal EPG-to-speech (EPG2S) system that utilizes EPG and speech signals for speech generation and enhancement. Different fusion strategies based on multiple combinations of EPG and noisy speech signals are examined, and the viability of the proposed method is investigated. Experimental results indicate that EPG2S achieves desirable speech generation outcomes based solely on EPG signals. Further, the addition of noisy speech signals is observed to improve quality and intelligibility. Additionally, EPG2S is observed to achieve high-quality speech enhancement based solely on audio signals, with the addition of EPG signals further improving the performance. The late fusion strategy is deemed to be the most effective approach for simultaneous speech generation and enhancement. Comments: Accepted By IEEE Signal Processing Letter Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2206.07860 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2206.07860v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2206.07860 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Letters, vol. 29, p. 2582-2586, 2022 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/LSP.2022.3184636 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Lichin Chen [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 16 Jun 2022 00:33:20 UTC (1,665 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled EPG2S: Speech Generation and Speech Enhancement based on Electropalatography and Audio Signals using Multimodal Learning, by Li-Chin Chen and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-06 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
