<!-- source_type: articles -->
# GTR-CTRL: Instrument and Genre Conditioning for Guitar-Focused Music Generation with Transformers

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05393v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:42.512174+00:00

## Notes

[2302.05393v1] GTR-CTRL: Instrument and Genre Conditioning for Guitar-Focused Music Generation with Transformers Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2302.05393v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2302.05393v1 (cs) [Submitted on 10 Feb 2023] Title: GTR-CTRL: Instrument and Genre Conditioning for Guitar-Focused Music Generation with Transformers Authors: Pedro Sarmento , Adarsh Kumar , Yu-Hua Chen , CJ Carr , Zack Zukowski , Mathieu Barthet View a PDF of the paper titled GTR-CTRL: Instrument and Genre Conditioning for Guitar-Focused Music Generation with Transformers, by Pedro Sarmento and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Recently, symbolic music generation with deep learning techniques has witnessed steady improvements. Most works on this topic focus on MIDI representations, but less attention has been paid to symbolic music generation using guitar tablatures (tabs) which can be used to encode multiple instruments. Tabs include information on expressive techniques and fingerings for fretted string instruments in addition to rhythm and pitch. In this work, we use the DadaGP dataset for guitar tab music generation, a corpus of over 26k songs in GuitarPro and token formats. We introduce methods to condition a Transformer-XL deep learning model to generate guitar tabs (GTR-CTRL) based on desired instrumentation (inst-CTRL) and genre (genre-CTRL). Special control tokens are appended at the beginning of each song in the training corpus. We assess the performance of the model with and without conditioning. We propose instrument presence metrics to assess the inst-CTRL model's response to a given instrumentation prompt. We trained a BERT model for downstream genre classification and used it to assess the results obtained with the genre-CTRL model. Statistical analyses evidence significant differences between the conditioned and unconditioned models. Overall, results indicate that the GTR-CTRL methods provide more flexibility and control for guitar-focused symbolic music generation than an unconditioned model. Comments: This preprint is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0). The Version of Record of this contribution is published in Proceedings of EvoMUSART: International Conference on Computational Intelligence in Music, Sound, Art and Design (Part of EvoStar) 2023 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2302.05393 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2302.05393v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2302.05393 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: EvoMUSART: International Conference on Computational Intelligence in Music, Sound, Art and Design (Part of EvoStar) 2023 Submission history From: Pedro Sarmento [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 10 Feb 2023 17:43:03 UTC (4,212 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled GTR-CTRL: Instrument and Genre Conditioning for Guitar-Focused Music Generation with Transformers, by Pedro Sarmento and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
