<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Comparison of semi-supervised deep learning algorithms for audio classification

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.08183v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:13.726774+00:00

## Notes

[2102.08183v2] Comparison of semi-supervised deep learning algorithms for audio classification Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2102.08183v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2102.08183v2 (cs) [Submitted on 16 Feb 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Mar 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: Comparison of semi-supervised deep learning algorithms for audio classification Authors: Léo Cances , Etienne Labbé , Thomas Pellegrini View a PDF of the paper titled Comparison of semi-supervised deep learning algorithms for audio classification, by L\'eo Cances and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: In this article, we adapted five recent SSL methods to the task of audio classification. The first two methods, namely Deep Co-Training (DCT) and Mean Teacher (MT), involve two collaborative neural networks. The three other algorithms, called MixMatch (MM), ReMixMatch (RMM), and FixMatch (FM), are single-model methods that rely primarily on data augmentation strategies. Using the Wide-ResNet-28-2 architecture in all our experiments, 10% of labeled data and the remaining 90% as unlabeled data for training, we first compare the error rates of the five methods on three standard benchmark audio datasets: Environmental Sound Classification (ESC-10), UrbanSound8K (UBS8K), and Google Speech Commands (GSC). In all but one cases, MM, RMM, and FM outperformed MT and DCT significantly, MM and RMM being the best methods in most experiments. On UBS8K and GSC, MM achieved 18.02% and 3.25% error rate (ER), respectively, outperforming models trained with 100% of the available labeled data, which reached 23.29% and 4.94%, respectively. RMM achieved the best results on ESC-10 (12.00% ER), followed by FM which reached 13.33%. Second, we explored adding the mixup augmentation, used in MM and RMM, to DCT, MT, and FM. In almost all cases, mixup brought consistent gains. For instance, on GSC, FM reached 4.44% and 3.31% ER without and with mixup. Our PyTorch code will be made available upon paper acceptance at https:// github. com/ Labbe ti/ SSLH. Comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, 5 tables. This is the version 3 of the paper. Contains minor fixes compared to the EURASIP one (which is the version 2 of the paper) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2102.08183 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2102.08183v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.08183 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing, 2022 Submission history From: Etienne Labbé [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 16 Feb 2021 14:33:05 UTC (1,203 KB) [v2] Wed, 8 Mar 2023 13:54:33 UTC (746 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Comparison of semi-supervised deep learning algorithms for audio classification, by L\'eo Cances and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Léo Cances Thomas Pellegrini export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
