<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Review of Differentiable Digital Signal Processing for Music & Speech Synthesis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.15422v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:25.467330+00:00

## Notes

[2308.15422v1] A Review of Differentiable Digital Signal Processing for Music & Speech Synthesis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2308.15422v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2308.15422v1 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Aug 2023] Title: A Review of Differentiable Digital Signal Processing for Music & Speech Synthesis Authors: Ben Hayes , Jordie Shier , György Fazekas , Andrew McPherson , Charalampos Saitis View a PDF of the paper titled A Review of Differentiable Digital Signal Processing for Music & Speech Synthesis, by Ben Hayes and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: The term "differentiable digital signal processing" describes a family of techniques in which loss function gradients are backpropagated through digital signal processors, facilitating their integration into neural networks. This article surveys the literature on differentiable audio signal processing, focusing on its use in music & speech synthesis. We catalogue applications to tasks including music performance rendering, sound matching, and voice transformation, discussing the motivations for and implications of the use of this methodology. This is accompanied by an overview of digital signal processing operations that have been implemented differentiably. Finally, we highlight open challenges, including optimisation pathologies, robustness to real-world conditions, and design trade-offs, and discuss directions for future research. Comments: Under review for Frontiers in Signal Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2308.15422 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2308.15422v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.15422 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ben Hayes [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 29 Aug 2023 16:29:06 UTC (1,415 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Review of Differentiable Digital Signal Processing for Music & Speech Synthesis, by Ben Hayes and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-08 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
