<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multi-encoder attention-based architectures for sound recognition with partial visual assistance

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.12826v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:15.502291+00:00

## Notes

[2209.12826v1] Multi-encoder attention-based architectures for sound recognition with partial visual assistance Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2209.12826v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2209.12826v1 (eess) [Submitted on 26 Sep 2022] Title: Multi-encoder attention-based architectures for sound recognition with partial visual assistance Authors: Wim Boes , Hugo Van hamme View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-encoder attention-based architectures for sound recognition with partial visual assistance, by Wim Boes and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Large-scale sound recognition data sets typically consist of acoustic recordings obtained from multimedia libraries. As a consequence, modalities other than audio can often be exploited to improve the outputs of models designed for associated tasks. Frequently, however, not all contents are available for all samples of such a collection: For example, the original material may have been removed from the source platform at some point, and therefore, non-auditory features can no longer be acquired. We demonstrate that a multi-encoder framework can be employed to deal with this issue by applying this method to attention-based deep learning systems, which are currently part of the state of the art in the domain of sound recognition. More specifically, we show that the proposed model extension can successfully be utilized to incorporate partially available visual information into the operational procedures of such networks, which normally only use auditory features during training and inference. Experimentally, we verify that the considered approach leads to improved predictions in a number of evaluation scenarios pertaining to audio tagging and sound event detection. Additionally, we scrutinize some properties and limitations of the presented technique. Comments: Submitted to EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2209.12826 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2209.12826v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2209.12826 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing; 2022; 25 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1186/s13636-022-00252-9 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Wim Boes [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 26 Sep 2022 16:32:33 UTC (272 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-encoder attention-based architectures for sound recognition with partial visual assistance, by Wim Boes and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
