<!-- source_type: articles -->
# SpecMaskGIT: Masked Generative Modeling of Audio Spectrograms for Efficient Audio Synthesis and Beyond

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.17672v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:16.540551+00:00

## Notes

[2406.17672v2] SpecMaskGIT: Masked Generative Modeling of Audio Spectrograms for Efficient Audio Synthesis and Beyond Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2406.17672v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2406.17672v2 (cs) [Submitted on 25 Jun 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 26 Jun 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: SpecMaskGIT: Masked Generative Modeling of Audio Spectrograms for Efficient Audio Synthesis and Beyond Authors: Marco Comunità , Zhi Zhong , Akira Takahashi , Shiqi Yang , Mengjie Zhao , Koichi Saito , Yukara Ikemiya , Takashi Shibuya , Shusuke Takahashi , Yuki Mitsufuji View a PDF of the paper titled SpecMaskGIT: Masked Generative Modeling of Audio Spectrograms for Efficient Audio Synthesis and Beyond, by Marco Comunit\`a and 9 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Recent advances in generative models that iteratively synthesize audio clips sparked great success to text-to-audio synthesis (TTA), but with the cost of slow synthesis speed and heavy computation. Although there have been attempts to accelerate the iterative procedure, high-quality TTA systems remain inefficient due to hundreds of iterations required in the inference phase and large amount of model parameters. To address the challenges, we propose SpecMaskGIT, a light-weighted, efficient yet effective TTA model based on the masked generative modeling of spectrograms. First, SpecMaskGIT synthesizes a realistic 10s audio clip by less than 16 iterations, an order-of-magnitude less than previous iterative TTA methods. As a discrete model, SpecMaskGIT outperforms larger VQ-Diffusion and auto-regressive models in the TTA benchmark, while being real-time with only 4 CPU cores or even 30x faster with a GPU. Next, built upon a latent space of Mel-spectrogram, SpecMaskGIT has a wider range of applications (e.g., the zero-shot bandwidth extension) than similar methods built on the latent wave domain. Moreover, we interpret SpecMaskGIT as a generative extension to previous discriminative audio masked Transformers, and shed light on its audio representation learning potential. We hope our work inspires the exploration of masked audio modeling toward further diverse scenarios. Comments: 6 pages, 8 figures, 8 tables. Audio samples: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2406.17672 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2406.17672v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2406.17672 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Zhi Zhong [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 25 Jun 2024 16:02:59 UTC (2,013 KB) [v2] Wed, 26 Jun 2024 08:15:24 UTC (2,013 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled SpecMaskGIT: Masked Generative Modeling of Audio Spectrograms for Efficient Audio Synthesis and Beyond, by Marco Comunit\`a and 9 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-06 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
