<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Data Preservation in High Energy Physics

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.0255v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:15.847469+00:00

## Notes

[0912.0255v1] Data Preservation in High Energy Physics Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > hep-ex > arXiv:0912.0255v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About High Energy Physics - Experiment arXiv:0912.0255v1 (hep-ex) [Submitted on 1 Dec 2009] Title: Data Preservation in High Energy Physics Authors: Dphep Study Group View a PDF of the paper titled Data Preservation in High Energy Physics, by Dphep Study Group View PDF Abstract: Data from high-energy physics (HEP) experiments are collected with significant financial and human effort and are mostly unique. At the same time, HEP has no coherent strategy for data preservation and re-use. An inter-experimental Study Group on HEP data preservation and long-term analysis was convened at the end of 2008 and held two workshops, at DESY (January 2009) and SLAC (May 2009). This document is an intermediate report to the International Committee for Future Accelerators (ICFA) of the reflections of this Study Group. Comments: Intermediate report of the ICFA-DPHEP Study Group (18 pages, 2 figures) Subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex) ; Digital Libraries (cs.DL); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an) Report number: DPHEP-2009-001 Cite as: arXiv:0912.0255 [hep-ex] (or arXiv:0912.0255v1 [hep-ex] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.0912.0255 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Cristinel Diaconu [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 1 Dec 2009 22:32:31 UTC (335 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Data Preservation in High Energy Physics, by Dphep Study Group View PDF view license Current browse context: hep-ex < prev | next > new | recent | 2009-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.DL physics physics.data-an References & Citations INSPIRE HEP NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
