<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Cacophony: An Improved Contrastive Audio-Text Model

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06986v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:52.329655+00:00

## Notes

[2402.06986v3] Cacophony: An Improved Contrastive Audio-Text Model Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2402.06986v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2402.06986v3 (cs) [Submitted on 10 Feb 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 30 Sep 2024 (this version, v3)] Title: Cacophony: An Improved Contrastive Audio-Text Model Authors: Ge Zhu , Jordan Darefsky , Zhiyao Duan View a PDF of the paper titled Cacophony: An Improved Contrastive Audio-Text Model, by Ge Zhu and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Despite recent advancements, audio-text models still lag behind their image-text counterparts in scale and performance. In this paper, we propose to improve both the data scale and the training procedure of audio-text contrastive models. Specifically, we craft a large-scale audio-text dataset containing 13,000 hours of text-labeled audio, using pretrained language models to process noisy text descriptions and automatic captioning to obtain text descriptions for unlabeled audio samples. We first train on audio-only data with a masked autoencoder (MAE) objective, which allows us to benefit from the scalability of unlabeled audio datasets. We then train a contrastive model with an auxiliary captioning objective with the audio encoder initialized from the MAE model. Our final model, which we name Cacophony, achieves state-of-the-art performance on audio-text retrieval tasks, and exhibits competitive results on the HEAR benchmark and other downstream tasks such as zero-shot classification. Comments: Accepted at IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2402.06986 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2402.06986v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2402.06986 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ge Zhu [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 10 Feb 2024 16:34:26 UTC (823 KB) [v2] Mon, 29 Apr 2024 05:46:10 UTC (1,739 KB) [v3] Mon, 30 Sep 2024 16:15:24 UTC (2,045 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Cacophony: An Improved Contrastive Audio-Text Model, by Ge Zhu and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-02 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
