<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Diet deep generative audio models with structured lottery

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2007.16170v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:57.802740+00:00

## Notes

[2007.16170v1] Diet deep generative audio models with structured lottery Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2007.16170v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2007.16170v1 (cs) [Submitted on 31 Jul 2020] Title: Diet deep generative audio models with structured lottery Authors: Philippe Esling , Ninon Devis , Adrien Bitton , Antoine Caillon , Axel Chemla--Romeu-Santos , Constance Douwes View a PDF of the paper titled Diet deep generative audio models with structured lottery, by Philippe Esling and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Deep learning models have provided extremely successful solutions in most audio application fields. However, the high accuracy of these models comes at the expense of a tremendous computation cost. This aspect is almost always overlooked in evaluating the quality of proposed models. However, models should not be evaluated without taking into account their complexity. This aspect is especially critical in audio applications, which heavily relies on specialized embedded hardware with real-time constraints. In this paper, we build on recent observations that deep models are highly overparameterized, by studying the lottery ticket hypothesis on deep generative audio models. This hypothesis states that extremely efficient small sub-networks exist in deep models and would provide higher accuracy than larger models if trained in isolation. However, lottery tickets are found by relying on unstructured masking, which means that resulting models do not provide any gain in either disk size or inference time. Instead, we develop here a method aimed at performing structured trimming. We show that this requires to rely on global selection and introduce a specific criterion based on mutual information. First, we confirm the surprising result that smaller models provide higher accuracy than their large counterparts. We further show that we can remove up to 95% of the model weights without significant degradation in accuracy. Hence, we can obtain very light models for generative audio across popular methods such as Wavenet, SING or DDSP, that are up to 100 times smaller with commensurate accuracy. We study the theoretical bounds for embedding these models on Raspberry Pi and Arduino, and show that we can obtain generative models on CPU with equivalent quality as large GPU models. Finally, we discuss the possibility of implementing deep generative audio models on embedded platforms. Comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (DAFx-20), Vienna, Austria, September 8-12, 2020 Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:2007.16170 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:2007.16170v1 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2007.16170 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Philippe Esling [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 31 Jul 2020 16:43:10 UTC (569 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Diet deep generative audio models with structured lottery, by Philippe Esling and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM cs.SD eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Philippe Esling Adrien Bitton Antoine Caillon Axel Chemla-Romeu-Santos export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
