<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Challenge on Sound Scene Synthesis: Evaluating Text-to-Audio Generation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17589v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:57.806606+00:00

## Notes

[2410.17589v1] Challenge on Sound Scene Synthesis: Evaluating Text-to-Audio Generation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2410.17589v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2410.17589v1 (cs) [Submitted on 23 Oct 2024] Title: Challenge on Sound Scene Synthesis: Evaluating Text-to-Audio Generation Authors: Junwon Lee , Modan Tailleur , Laurie M. Heller , Keunwoo Choi , Mathieu Lagrange , Brian McFee , Keisuke Imoto , Yuki Okamoto View a PDF of the paper titled Challenge on Sound Scene Synthesis: Evaluating Text-to-Audio Generation, by Junwon Lee and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Despite significant advancements in neural text-to-audio generation, challenges persist in controllability and evaluation. This paper addresses these issues through the Sound Scene Synthesis challenge held as part of the Detection and Classification of Acoustic Scenes and Events 2024. We present an evaluation protocol combining objective metric, namely Fréchet Audio Distance, with perceptual assessments, utilizing a structured prompt format to enable diverse captions and effective evaluation. Our analysis reveals varying performance across sound categories and model architectures, with larger models generally excelling but innovative lightweight approaches also showing promise. The strong correlation between objective metrics and human ratings validates our evaluation approach. We discuss outcomes in terms of audio quality, controllability, and architectural considerations for text-to-audio synthesizers, providing direction for future research. Comments: accepted to NeurIPS 2024 Workshop: Audio Imagination Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2410.17589 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2410.17589v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.17589 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Junwon Lee [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 23 Oct 2024 06:35:41 UTC (2,032 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Challenge on Sound Scene Synthesis: Evaluating Text-to-Audio Generation, by Junwon Lee and 7 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.LG cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
