<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signal Processing and Machine Learning Techniques for Terahertz Sensing: An Overview

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2104.06309v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:18.550144+00:00

## Notes

[2104.06309v2] Signal Processing and Machine Learning Techniques for Terahertz Sensing: An Overview Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2104.06309v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2104.06309v2 (eess) [Submitted on 9 Apr 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 2 Sep 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Signal Processing and Machine Learning Techniques for Terahertz Sensing: An Overview Authors: Sara Helal , Hadi Sarieddeen , Hayssam Dahrouj , Tareq Y. Al-Naffouri , Mohamed Slim Alouini View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing and Machine Learning Techniques for Terahertz Sensing: An Overview, by Sara Helal and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Following the recent progress in Terahertz (THz) signal generation and radiation methods, joint THz communications and sensing applications are shaping the future of wireless systems. Towards this end, THz spectroscopy is expected to be carried over user equipment devices to identify material and gaseous components of interest. THz-specific signal processing techniques should complement this re-surged interest in THz sensing for efficient utilization of the THz band. In this paper, we present an overview of these techniques, with an emphasis on signal pre-processing (standard normal variate normalization, min-max normalization, and Savitzky-Golay filtering), feature extraction (principal component analysis, partial least squares, t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding, and nonnegative matrix factorization), and classification techniques (support vector machines, k-nearest neighbor, discriminant analysis, and naive Bayes). We also address the effectiveness of deep learning techniques by exploring their promising sensing capabilities at the THz band. Lastly, we investigate the performance and complexity trade-offs of the studied methods in the context of joint communications and sensing; we motivate the corresponding use-cases, and we present few future research directions in the field. Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI) Cite as: arXiv:2104.06309 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2104.06309v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2104.06309 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 39, no. 5, pp. 42-62, Sept. 2022 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2022.3183808 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Hadi Sarieddeen Dr. [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 9 Apr 2021 01:38:34 UTC (567 KB) [v2] Fri, 2 Sep 2022 22:58:58 UTC (625 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Processing and Machine Learning Techniques for Terahertz Sensing: An Overview, by Sara Helal and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
