<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Natural Language Processing for Music Knowledge Discovery

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.02200v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:26.675009+00:00

## Notes

[1807.02200v1] Natural Language Processing for Music Knowledge Discovery Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1807.02200v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:1807.02200v1 (cs) [Submitted on 6 Jul 2018] Title: Natural Language Processing for Music Knowledge Discovery Authors: Sergio Oramas , Luis Espinosa-Anke , Francisco Gómez , Xavier Serra View a PDF of the paper titled Natural Language Processing for Music Knowledge Discovery, by Sergio Oramas and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Today, a massive amount of musical knowledge is stored in written form, with testimonies dated as far back as several centuries ago. In this work, we present different Natural Language Processing (NLP) approaches to harness the potential of these text collections for automatic music knowledge discovery, covering different phases in a prototypical NLP pipeline, namely corpus compilation, text-mining, information extraction, knowledge graph generation and sentiment analysis. Each of these approaches is presented alongside different use cases (i.e., flamenco, Renaissance and popular music) where large collections of documents are processed, and conclusions stemming from data-driven analyses are presented and discussed. Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) Cite as: arXiv:1807.02200 [cs.CL] (or arXiv:1807.02200v1 [cs.CL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1807.02200 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Journal of New Music Research (2018) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1080/09298215.2018.1488878 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Sergio Oramas [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 6 Jul 2018 00:07:27 UTC (2,982 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Natural Language Processing for Music Knowledge Discovery, by Sergio Oramas and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CL < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-07 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Sergio Oramas Luis Espinosa Anke Francisco Gómez Xavier Serra export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
