<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multimodal music information processing and retrieval: survey and future challenges

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.05347v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:03.699296+00:00

## Notes

[1902.05347v1] Multimodal music information processing and retrieval: survey and future challenges Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1902.05347v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Multimedia arXiv:1902.05347v1 (cs) [Submitted on 14 Feb 2019] Title: Multimodal music information processing and retrieval: survey and future challenges Authors: Federico Simonetta , Stavros Ntalampiras , Federico Avanzini View a PDF of the paper titled Multimodal music information processing and retrieval: survey and future challenges, by Federico Simonetta and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Towards improving the performance in various music information processing tasks, recent studies exploit different modalities able to capture diverse aspects of music. Such modalities include audio recordings, symbolic music scores, mid-level representations, motion, and gestural data, video recordings, editorial or cultural tags, lyrics and album cover arts. This paper critically reviews the various approaches adopted in Music Information Processing and Retrieval and highlights how multimodal algorithms can help Music Computing applications. First, we categorize the related literature based on the application they address. Subsequently, we analyze existing information fusion approaches, and we conclude with the set of challenges that Music Information Retrieval and Sound and Music Computing research communities should focus in the next years. Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ACM classes: H.5.5; H.3.3 Cite as: arXiv:1902.05347 [cs.MM] (or arXiv:1902.05347v1 [cs.MM] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1902.05347 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: in 2019 International Workshop on Multilayer Music Representation and Processing, Milano, IEEE 2019 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MMRP.2019.00012 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Federico Simonetta [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 14 Feb 2019 13:36:01 UTC (2,481 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multimodal music information processing and retrieval: survey and future challenges, by Federico Simonetta and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.MM < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Federico Simonetta Stavros Ntalampiras Federico Avanzini export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
