<!-- source_type: articles -->
# ETTA: Elucidating the Design Space of Text-to-Audio Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19351v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:42.644485+00:00

## Notes

[2412.19351v2] ETTA: Elucidating the Design Space of Text-to-Audio Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2412.19351v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2412.19351v2 (cs) [Submitted on 26 Dec 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 30 Jun 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: ETTA: Elucidating the Design Space of Text-to-Audio Models Authors: Sang-gil Lee , Zhifeng Kong , Arushi Goel , Sungwon Kim , Rafael Valle , Bryan Catanzaro View a PDF of the paper titled ETTA: Elucidating the Design Space of Text-to-Audio Models, by Sang-gil Lee and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Recent years have seen significant progress in Text-To-Audio (TTA) synthesis, enabling users to enrich their creative workflows with synthetic audio generated from natural language prompts. Despite this progress, the effects of data, model architecture, training objective functions, and sampling strategies on target benchmarks are not well understood. With the purpose of providing a holistic understanding of the design space of TTA models, we set up a large-scale empirical experiment focused on diffusion and flow matching models. Our contributions include: 1) AF-Synthetic, a large dataset of high quality synthetic captions obtained from an audio understanding model; 2) a systematic comparison of different architectural, training, and inference design choices for TTA models; 3) an analysis of sampling methods and their Pareto curves with respect to generation quality and inference speed. We leverage the knowledge obtained from this extensive analysis to propose our best model dubbed Elucidated Text-To-Audio (ETTA). When evaluated on AudioCaps and MusicCaps, ETTA provides improvements over the baselines trained on publicly available data, while being competitive with models trained on proprietary data. Finally, we show ETTA's improved ability to generate creative audio following complex and imaginative captions -- a task that is more challenging than current benchmarks. Comments: ICML 2025. Demo: this https URL Code: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2412.19351 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2412.19351v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2412.19351 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sang-Gil Lee [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 26 Dec 2024 21:13:12 UTC (110 KB) [v2] Mon, 30 Jun 2025 23:24:17 UTC (502 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled ETTA: Elucidating the Design Space of Text-to-Audio Models, by Sang-gil Lee and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
