<!-- source_type: articles -->
# AudioNet: Supervised Deep Hashing for Retrieval of Similar Audio Events

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.01372v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:45.427510+00:00

## Notes

[2511.01372v1] AudioNet: Supervised Deep Hashing for Retrieval of Similar Audio Events Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2511.01372v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2511.01372v1 (eess) [Submitted on 3 Nov 2025] Title: AudioNet: Supervised Deep Hashing for Retrieval of Similar Audio Events Authors: Sagar Dutta , Vipul Arora View a PDF of the paper titled AudioNet: Supervised Deep Hashing for Retrieval of Similar Audio Events, by Sagar Dutta and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This work presents a supervised deep hashing method for retrieving similar audio events. The proposed method, named AudioNet, is a deep-learning-based system for efficient hashing and retrieval of similar audio events using an audio example as a query. AudioNet achieves high retrieval performance on multiple standard datasets by generating binary hash codes for similar audio events, setting new benchmarks in the field, and highlighting its efficacy and effectiveness compare to other hashing methods. Through comprehensive experiments on standard datasets, our research represents a pioneering effort in evaluating the retrieval performance of similar audio events. A novel loss function is proposed which incorporates weighted contrastive and weighted pairwise loss along with hashcode balancing to improve the efficiency of audio event retrieval. The method adopts discrete gradient propagation, which allows gradients to be propagated through discrete variables during backpropagation. This enables the network to optimize the discrete hash codes using standard gradient-based optimization algorithms, which are typically used for continuous variables. The proposed method showcases promising retrieval performance, as evidenced by the experimental results, even when dealing with imbalanced datasets. The systematic analysis conducted in this study further supports the significant benefits of the proposed method in retrieval performance across multiple datasets. The findings presented in this work establish a baseline for future studies on the efficient retrieval of similar audio events using deep audio embeddings. Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2511.01372 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2511.01372v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2511.01372 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol 32, 2024 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2024.3446232 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Sagar Dutta [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 3 Nov 2025 09:14:37 UTC (1,182 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled AudioNet: Supervised Deep Hashing for Retrieval of Similar Audio Events, by Sagar Dutta and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-11 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
