<!-- source_type: articles -->
# White-box Audio VST Effect Programming

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.03170v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:20.586881+00:00

## Notes

[2102.03170v1] White-box Audio VST Effect Programming Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2102.03170v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2102.03170v1 (cs) [Submitted on 5 Feb 2021] Title: White-box Audio VST Effect Programming Authors: Christopher Mitcheltree , Hideki Koike View a PDF of the paper titled White-box Audio VST Effect Programming, by Christopher Mitcheltree and Hideki Koike View PDF Abstract: Learning to program an audio production VST plugin is a time consuming process, usually obtained through inefficient trial and error and only mastered after extensive user experience. We propose a white-box, iterative system that provides step-by-step instructions for applying audio effects to change a user's audio signal towards a desired sound. We apply our system to Xfer Records Serum: currently one of the most popular and complex VST synthesizers used by the audio production community. Our results indicate that our system is consistently able to provide useful feedback for a variety of different audio effects and synthesizer presets. Comments: The latest version of the system is to appear at EvoMUSART 2021 as a full paper. Audio samples of the latest system can be listened to at this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2102.03170 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2102.03170v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.03170 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 4th Workshop on Machine Learning for Creativity and Design at NeurIPS 2020, Vancouver, Canada Submission history From: Christopher Mitcheltree [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 5 Feb 2021 13:45:17 UTC (1,176 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled White-box Audio VST Effect Programming, by Christopher Mitcheltree and Hideki Koike View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Christopher Mitcheltree export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
