<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Audio Tagging by Cross Filtering Noisy Labels

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2007.08165v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:55.363003+00:00

## Notes

[2007.08165v1] Audio Tagging by Cross Filtering Noisy Labels Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2007.08165v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2007.08165v1 (eess) [Submitted on 16 Jul 2020] Title: Audio Tagging by Cross Filtering Noisy Labels Authors: Boqing Zhu , Kele Xu , Qiuqiang Kong , Huaimin Wang , Yuxing Peng View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Tagging by Cross Filtering Noisy Labels, by Boqing Zhu and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: High quality labeled datasets have allowed deep learning to achieve impressive results on many sound analysis tasks. Yet, it is labor-intensive to accurately annotate large amount of audio data, and the dataset may contain noisy labels in the practical settings. Meanwhile, the deep neural networks are susceptive to those incorrect labeled data because of their outstanding memorization ability. In this paper, we present a novel framework, named CrossFilter, to combat the noisy labels problem for audio tagging. Multiple representations (such as, Logmel and MFCC) are used as the input of our framework for providing more complementary information of the audio. Then, though the cooperation and interaction of two neural networks, we divide the dataset into curated and noisy subsets by incrementally pick out the possibly correctly labeled data from the noisy data. Moreover, our approach leverages the multi-task learning on curated and noisy subsets with different loss function to fully utilize the entire dataset. The noisy-robust loss function is employed to alleviate the adverse effects of incorrect labels. On both the audio tagging datasets FSDKaggle2018 and FSDKaggle2019, empirical results demonstrate the performance improvement compared with other competing approaches. On FSDKaggle2018 dataset, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance and even surpasses the ensemble models. Comments: Accepted by IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:2007.08165 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2007.08165v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2007.08165 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2020.3008832 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Boqing Zhu [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 16 Jul 2020 07:55:04 UTC (974 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Audio Tagging by Cross Filtering Noisy Labels, by Boqing Zhu and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
