<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Digital Envelope Estimation Via Geometric Properties of an Arbitrary Real Signal

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2009.02860v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:45.346911+00:00

## Notes

[2009.02860v2] Digital Envelope Estimation Via Geometric Properties of an Arbitrary Real Signal Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2009.02860v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2009.02860v2 (cs) [Submitted on 7 Sep 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 6 Dec 2020 (this version, v2)] Title: Digital Envelope Estimation Via Geometric Properties of an Arbitrary Real Signal Authors: Carlos Tarjano , Valdecy Pereira View a PDF of the paper titled Digital Envelope Estimation Via Geometric Properties of an Arbitrary Real Signal, by Carlos Tarjano and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: Envelope detection techniques have applications in areas like medicine, sound classification and synthesis, seismology and speech recognition. Nevertheless, a general approach to digital envelope detection of signals with rich spectral content doesn't exist, as most methods involve manual intervention, in the form of filter design, smoothing, and other specific design choices, based on prior knowledge of the signals under investigation. To address this problem, we propose an algorithm that uses intrinsic characteristics of a signal to estimate its envelope, eliminating the necessity of parameter tuning. The approach here described draws inspiration from geometric concepts to estimate the temporal envelope of an arbitrary signal; specifically, a new measure of discrete curvature is used to obtain the average radius of curvature of a discrete wave, that will serve as a threshold to identify the waves samples that are part of the envelope. The algorithm compares favourably with classic envelope detection techniques based on smoothing, filtering and the Hilbert Transform, besides being physically plausible. We provide visualizations of the envelope extracted via the algorithm for various real-world signals, with very diverse characteristics, such as voice, spoken and sang, and pitched and non-pitched musical instruments, and discuss some approaches to assess the quality of the obtained envelopes. A Python module implementing the algorithm was made available via the Python Package Index; interactive visualizations of envelopes for a diverse range of digital waves, as well as the source code for the Python implementation, are available online. Comments: More info here: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2009.02860 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2009.02860v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2009.02860 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Digital Signal Processing, 2022 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2021.103229 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Carlos Henrique Tarjano Santos [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 7 Sep 2020 02:25:22 UTC (1,579 KB) [v2] Sun, 6 Dec 2020 22:21:20 UTC (938 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Digital Envelope Estimation Via Geometric Properties of an Arbitrary Real Signal, by Carlos Tarjano and 1 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-09 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
