<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Qwen2-Audio Technical Report

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10759v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:33.464781+00:00

## Notes

[2407.10759v1] Qwen2-Audio Technical Report Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2407.10759v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2407.10759v1 (eess) [Submitted on 15 Jul 2024] Title: Qwen2-Audio Technical Report Authors: Yunfei Chu , Jin Xu , Qian Yang , Haojie Wei , Xipin Wei , Zhifang Guo , Yichong Leng , Yuanjun Lv , Jinzheng He , Junyang Lin , Chang Zhou , Jingren Zhou View a PDF of the paper titled Qwen2-Audio Technical Report, by Yunfei Chu and 11 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: We introduce the latest progress of Qwen-Audio, a large-scale audio-language model called Qwen2-Audio, which is capable of accepting various audio signal inputs and performing audio analysis or direct textual responses with regard to speech instructions. In contrast to complex hierarchical tags, we have simplified the pre-training process by utilizing natural language prompts for different data and tasks, and have further expanded the data volume. We have boosted the instruction-following capability of Qwen2-Audio and implemented two distinct audio interaction modes for voice chat and audio analysis. In the voice chat mode, users can freely engage in voice interactions with Qwen2-Audio without text input. In the audio analysis mode, users could provide audio and text instructions for analysis during the interaction. Note that we do not use any system prompts to switch between voice chat and audio analysis modes. Qwen2-Audio is capable of intelligently comprehending the content within audio and following voice commands to respond appropriately. For instance, in an audio segment that simultaneously contains sounds, multi-speaker conversations, and a voice command, Qwen2-Audio can directly understand the command and provide an interpretation and response to the audio. Additionally, DPO has optimized the model's performance in terms of factuality and adherence to desired behavior. According to the evaluation results from AIR-Bench, Qwen2-Audio outperformed previous SOTAs, such as Gemini-1.5-pro, in tests focused on audio-centric instruction-following capabilities. Qwen2-Audio is open-sourced with the aim of fostering the advancement of the multi-modal language community. Comments: this https URL . Checkpoints, codes and scripts will be opensoursed soon Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:2407.10759 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2407.10759v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.10759 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jin Xu [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 15 Jul 2024 14:38:09 UTC (3,047 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Qwen2-Audio Technical Report, by Yunfei Chu and 11 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL cs.LG eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
