<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Signal Representations for Synthesizing Audio Textures with Generative Adversarial Networks

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2103.07390v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:37.236845+00:00

## Notes

[2103.07390v1] Signal Representations for Synthesizing Audio Textures with Generative Adversarial Networks Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2103.07390v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2103.07390v1 (eess) [Submitted on 12 Mar 2021] Title: Signal Representations for Synthesizing Audio Textures with Generative Adversarial Networks Authors: Chitralekha Gupta , Purnima Kamath , Lonce Wyse View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Representations for Synthesizing Audio Textures with Generative Adversarial Networks, by Chitralekha Gupta and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) currently achieve the state-of-the-art sound synthesis quality for pitched musical instruments using a 2-channel spectrogram representation consisting of log magnitude and instantaneous frequency (the "IFSpectrogram"). Many other synthesis systems use representations derived from the magnitude spectra, and then depend on a backend component to invert the output magnitude spectrograms that generally result in audible artefacts associated with the inversion process. However, for signals that have closely-spaced frequency components such as non-pitched and other noisy sounds, training the GAN on the 2-channel IFSpectrogram representation offers no advantage over the magnitude spectra based representations. In this paper, we propose that training GANs on single-channel magnitude spectra, and using the Phase Gradient Heap Integration (PGHI) inversion algorithm is a better comprehensive approach for audio synthesis modeling of diverse signals that include pitched, non-pitched, and dynamically complex sounds. We show that this method produces higher-quality output for wideband and noisy sounds, such as pops and chirps, compared to using the IFSpectrogram. Furthermore, the sound quality for pitched sounds is comparable to using the IFSpectrogram, even while using a simpler representation with half the memory requirements. Comments: Submitted to Sound and Music Computing Conference (SMC) 2021 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2103.07390 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2103.07390v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2103.07390 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Sound and Music Computing 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5054145 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Chitralekha Gupta [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 12 Mar 2021 16:31:20 UTC (1,125 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Signal Representations for Synthesizing Audio Textures with Generative Adversarial Networks, by Chitralekha Gupta and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-03 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
