<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Observing and Tracking Bandlimited Graph Processes

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.00404v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:49.553524+00:00

## Notes

[1712.00404v2] Observing and Tracking Bandlimited Graph Processes Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1712.00404v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1712.00404v2 (eess) [Submitted on 1 Dec 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Oct 2018 (this version, v2)] Title: Observing and Tracking Bandlimited Graph Processes Authors: Elvin Isufi , Paolo Banelli , Paolo Di Lorenzo , Geert Leus View a PDF of the paper titled Observing and Tracking Bandlimited Graph Processes, by Elvin Isufi and Paolo Banelli and Paolo Di Lorenzo and Geert Leus View PDF Abstract: One of the most crucial challenges in graph signal processing is the sampling of bandlimited graph signals, i.e., signals that are sparse in a well-defined graph Fourier domain. So far, the prior art is mostly focused on (sub)sampling single snapshots of graph signals ignoring their evolution over time. However, time can bring forth new insights, since many real signals like sensor measurements, biological, financial, and network signals in general, have intrinsic correlations in both domains. In this work, {we fill this lacuna} by jointly considering the graph-time nature of graph signals, named \emph{graph processes} for two main tasks: \emph{i)} observability of graph processes; and \emph{ii)} tracking of graph processes via Kalman filtering; both from a (possibly time-varying) subset of nodes. A detailed mathematical analysis ratifies the proposed methods and provides insights into the role played by the different actors, such as the graph topology, the process bandwidth, and the sampling strategy. Moreover, (sub)optimal sampling strategies that jointly exploit the nature of the graph structure and graph process are proposed. Several numerical tests on both synthetic and real data validate our theoretical findings and illustrate the performance of the proposed methods in coping with time-varying graph signals. Comments: Submitted to Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:1712.00404 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1712.00404v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1712.00404 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Elvin Isufi [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 1 Dec 2017 16:56:39 UTC (1,582 KB) [v2] Fri, 19 Oct 2018 11:35:53 UTC (5,914 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Observing and Tracking Bandlimited Graph Processes, by Elvin Isufi and Paolo Banelli and Paolo Di Lorenzo and Geert Leus View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-12 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
