<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Pulse Processing -- Overview and Challenges

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.06408v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:46.009074+00:00

## Notes

[2503.06408v1] Pulse Processing -- Overview and Challenges Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2503.06408v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2503.06408v1 (eess) [Submitted on 9 Mar 2025] Title: Pulse Processing -- Overview and Challenges Authors: Jonathan H. Manton View a PDF of the paper titled Pulse Processing -- Overview and Challenges, by Jonathan H. Manton View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The detection of irregularly spaced pulses of non-negligible width is a fascinating yet under-explored topic in signal processing. It sits adjacent to other core topics such as radar and symbol detection yet has its own distinctive challenges. Even modern techniques such as compressed sensing perform worse than may be expected on pulse processing problems. Real-world applications include nuclear spectroscopy, flow cytometry, seismic signal processing and neural spike sorting, and these in turn have applications to environmental radiation monitoring, surveying, diagnostic medicine, industrial imaging, biomedical imaging, top-down proteomics, and security screening, to name just a few. This overview paper endeavours to position the pulse processing problem in the context of signal processing. It also describes some current challenges in the field. Comments: Accepted by Elsevier's Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Applications (stat.AP) Cite as: arXiv:2503.06408 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2503.06408v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2503.06408 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Jonathan Manton [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 9 Mar 2025 02:54:28 UTC (152 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Pulse Processing -- Overview and Challenges, by Jonathan H. Manton View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-03 Change to browse by: eess stat stat.AP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
