<!-- source_type: articles -->
# HARP-Net: Hyper-Autoencoded Reconstruction Propagation for Scalable Neural Audio Coding

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2107.10843v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:09.518941+00:00

## Notes

[2107.10843v2] HARP-Net: Hyper-Autoencoded Reconstruction Propagation for Scalable Neural Audio Coding Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2107.10843v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2107.10843v2 (eess) [Submitted on 22 Jul 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 23 Jul 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: HARP-Net: Hyper-Autoencoded Reconstruction Propagation for Scalable Neural Audio Coding Authors: Darius Petermann , Seungkwon Beack , Minje Kim View a PDF of the paper titled HARP-Net: Hyper-Autoencoded Reconstruction Propagation for Scalable Neural Audio Coding, by Darius Petermann and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: An autoencoder-based codec employs quantization to turn its bottleneck layer activation into bitstrings, a process that hinders information flow between the encoder and decoder parts. To circumvent this issue, we employ additional skip connections between the corresponding pair of encoder-decoder layers. The assumption is that, in a mirrored autoencoder topology, a decoder layer reconstructs the intermediate feature representation of its corresponding encoder layer. Hence, any additional information directly propagated from the corresponding encoder layer helps the reconstruction. We implement this kind of skip connections in the form of additional autoencoders, each of which is a small codec that compresses the massive data transfer between the paired encoder-decoder layers. We empirically verify that the proposed hyper-autoencoded architecture improves perceptual audio quality compared to an ordinary autoencoder baseline. Comments: Accepted to the IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA) 2021, Mohonk Mountain House, New Paltz, NY Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2107.10843 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2107.10843v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2107.10843 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Darius Petermann [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 22 Jul 2021 17:57:53 UTC (7,178 KB) [v2] Fri, 23 Jul 2021 14:33:04 UTC (7,178 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled HARP-Net: Hyper-Autoencoded Reconstruction Propagation for Scalable Neural Audio Coding, by Darius Petermann and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
