<!-- source_type: articles -->
# The Sound Demixing Challenge 2023 $\unicode{x2013}$ Music Demixing Track

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.06979v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:11.491074+00:00

## Notes

[2308.06979v4] The Sound Demixing Challenge 2023 $\unicode{x2013}$ Music Demixing Track Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2308.06979v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2308.06979v4 (eess) [Submitted on 14 Aug 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 19 Apr 2024 (this version, v4)] Title: The Sound Demixing Challenge 2023 $\unicode{x2013}$ Music Demixing Track Authors: Giorgio Fabbro , Stefan Uhlich , Chieh-Hsin Lai , Woosung Choi , Marco Martínez-Ramírez , Weihsiang Liao , Igor Gadelha , Geraldo Ramos , Eddie Hsu , Hugo Rodrigues , Fabian-Robert Stöter , Alexandre Défossez , Yi Luo , Jianwei Yu , Dipam Chakraborty , Sharada Mohanty , Roman Solovyev , Alexander Stempkovskiy , Tatiana Habruseva , Nabarun Goswami , Tatsuya Harada , Minseok Kim , Jun Hyung Lee , Yuanliang Dong , Xinran Zhang , Jiafeng Liu , Yuki Mitsufuji View a PDF of the paper titled The Sound Demixing Challenge 2023 $\unicode{x2013}$ Music Demixing Track, by Giorgio Fabbro and 26 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This paper summarizes the music demixing (MDX) track of the Sound Demixing Challenge (SDX'23). We provide a summary of the challenge setup and introduce the task of robust music source separation (MSS), i.e., training MSS models in the presence of errors in the training data. We propose a formalization of the errors that can occur in the design of a training dataset for MSS systems and introduce two new datasets that simulate such errors: SDXDB23_LabelNoise and SDXDB23_Bleeding. We describe the methods that achieved the highest scores in the competition. Moreover, we present a direct comparison with the previous edition of the challenge (the Music Demixing Challenge 2021): the best performing system achieved an improvement of over 1.6dB in signal-to-distortion ratio over the winner of the previous competition, when evaluated on MDXDB21. Besides relying on the signal-to-distortion ratio as objective metric, we also performed a listening test with renowned producers and musicians to study the perceptual quality of the systems and report here the results. Finally, we provide our insights into the organization of the competition and our prospects for future editions. Comments: Published in Transactions of the International Society for Music Information Retrieval ( this https URL ) Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2308.06979 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2308.06979v4 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.06979 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Transactions of the International Society for Music Information Retrieval, 7(1), pp.63-84, 2024 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.5334/tismir.171 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Giorgio Fabbro [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 14 Aug 2023 07:32:03 UTC (324 KB) [v2] Tue, 23 Jan 2024 06:55:18 UTC (442 KB) [v3] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 15:09:22 UTC (442 KB) [v4] Fri, 19 Apr 2024 09:16:17 UTC (466 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled The Sound Demixing Challenge 2023 $\unicode{x2013}$ Music Demixing Track, by Giorgio Fabbro and 26 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
