<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Single-Pixel Compressive Imaging in Shift-Invariant Spaces via Exact Wavelet Frames

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.00404v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:43.310598+00:00

## Notes

[2106.00404v2] Single-Pixel Compressive Imaging in Shift-Invariant Spaces via Exact Wavelet Frames Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2106.00404v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Image and Video Processing arXiv:2106.00404v2 (eess) [Submitted on 1 Jun 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 31 Mar 2022 (this version, v2)] Title: Single-Pixel Compressive Imaging in Shift-Invariant Spaces via Exact Wavelet Frames Authors: Tin Vlašić , Damir Seršić View a PDF of the paper titled Single-Pixel Compressive Imaging in Shift-Invariant Spaces via Exact Wavelet Frames, by Tin Vla\v{s}i\'c and Damir Ser\v{s}i\'c View PDF Abstract: This paper introduces a novel framework for single-pixel imaging via compressive sensing (CS) in shift-invariant (SI) spaces by exploiting the sparsity property of a wavelet representation. We reinterpret the acquisition procedure of a single-pixel camera as filtering of the observed signal with continuous-domain functions that lie in an SI subspace spanned by the integer shifts of the box function. The signal is modeled by an arbitrary SI generator whose special case is the box function, which, as we show in the paper, is conventionally used in single-pixel imaging. We propose to use separable B-spline generators which are intuitively complemented by sparsity-inducing spline wavelets. The SI models of the acquisition and the underlying signal lead to an exact discretization of an inherently continuous-domain inverse problem to a finite-dimensional problem of CS type. By solving the CS optimization problem, a parametric representation of the signal is obtained. Such a representation offers many practical advantages in image processing applications. We propose an efficient matrix-free implementation of the framework and conduct it on the standard test images and real-world measurement data. Experimental results show that the proposed framework achieves a significant improvement of the reconstruction quality relative to the conventional discretization in CS setups. MATLAB implementation of the method described in this paper has been made publicly available on this https URL . Comments: 16 pages, 12 figures, has been accepted for publication in Signal Processing: Image Communication Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV) ; Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2106.00404 [eess.IV] (or arXiv:2106.00404v2 [eess.IV] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2106.00404 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Signal Processing. Image Communication, vol. 105, article no. 116702, July 2022 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2022.116702 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Tin Vlasic [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 1 Jun 2021 11:30:50 UTC (9,038 KB) [v2] Thu, 31 Mar 2022 09:46:49 UTC (9,437 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Single-Pixel Compressive Imaging in Shift-Invariant Spaces via Exact Wavelet Frames, by Tin Vla\v{s}i\'c and Damir Ser\v{s}i\'c View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.IV < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-06 Change to browse by: eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
