<!-- source_type: articles -->
# 25 Years of Signal Processing Advances for Multiantenna Communications

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.02677v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:51.131493+00:00

## Notes

[2304.02677v1] 25 Years of Signal Processing Advances for Multiantenna Communications Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2304.02677v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2304.02677v1 (eess) [Submitted on 5 Apr 2023] Title: 25 Years of Signal Processing Advances for Multiantenna Communications Authors: Emil Björnson , Yonina C. Eldar , Erik G. Larsson , Angel Lozano , H. Vincent Poor View a PDF of the paper titled 25 Years of Signal Processing Advances for Multiantenna Communications, by Emil Bj\"ornson and 4 other authors View PDF Abstract: Wireless communication technology has progressed dramatically over the past 25 years, in terms of societal adoption as well as technical sophistication. In 1998, mobile phones were still in the process of becoming compact and affordable devices that could be widely utilized in both developed and developing countries. There were "only" 300 million mobile subscribers in the world [1]. Cellular networks were among the first privatized telecommunication markets, and competition turned the devices into fashion accessories with attractive designs that could be individualized. The service was circumscribed to telephony and text messaging, but it was groundbreaking in that, for the first time, telecommunication was between people rather than locations. Wireless networks have changed dramatically over the past few decades, enabling this revolution in service provisioning and making it possible to accommodate the ensuing dramatic growth in traffic. There are many contributing components, including new air interfaces for faster transmission, channel coding for enhanced reliability, improved source compression to remove redundancies, and leaner protocols to reduce overheads. Signal processing is at the core of these improvements, but nowhere has it played a bigger role than in the development of multiantenna communication. This article tells the story of how major signal processing advances have transformed the early multiantenna concepts into mainstream technology over the past 25 years. The story therefore begins somewhat arbitrarily in 1998. A broad account of the state-of-the-art signal processing techniques for wireless systems by 1998 can be found in [2], and its contrast with recent textbooks such as [3]-[5] reveals the dramatic leap forward that has taken place in the interim. Comments: To appear in IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 21 pages, 7 figures Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Information Theory (cs.IT) Cite as: arXiv:2304.02677 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2304.02677v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2304.02677 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2023.3261505 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Emil Björnson [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 5 Apr 2023 18:11:36 UTC (385 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled 25 Years of Signal Processing Advances for Multiantenna Communications, by Emil Bj\"ornson and 4 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.IT eess math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
