<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Perceptual Musical Features for Interpretable Audio Tagging

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11234v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:39.241681+00:00

## Notes

[2312.11234v3] Perceptual Musical Features for Interpretable Audio Tagging Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2312.11234v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2312.11234v3 (cs) [Submitted on 18 Dec 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 23 Feb 2024 (this version, v3)] Title: Perceptual Musical Features for Interpretable Audio Tagging Authors: Vassilis Lyberatos , Spyridon Kantarelis , Edmund Dervakos , Giorgos Stamou View a PDF of the paper titled Perceptual Musical Features for Interpretable Audio Tagging, by Vassilis Lyberatos and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: In the age of music streaming platforms, the task of automatically tagging music audio has garnered significant attention, driving researchers to devise methods aimed at enhancing performance metrics on standard datasets. Most recent approaches rely on deep neural networks, which, despite their impressive performance, possess opacity, making it challenging to elucidate their output for a given input. While the issue of interpretability has been emphasized in other fields like medicine, it has not received attention in music-related tasks. In this study, we explored the relevance of interpretability in the context of automatic music tagging. We constructed a workflow that incorporates three different information extraction techniques: a) leveraging symbolic knowledge, b) utilizing auxiliary deep neural networks, and c) employing signal processing to extract perceptual features from audio files. These features were subsequently used to train an interpretable machine-learning model for tag prediction. We conducted experiments on two datasets, namely the MTG-Jamendo dataset and the GTZAN dataset. Our method surpassed the performance of baseline models in both tasks and, in certain instances, demonstrated competitiveness with the current state-of-the-art. We conclude that there are use cases where the deterioration in performance is outweighed by the value of interpretability. Comments: Github Repository: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2312.11234 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2312.11234v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2312.11234 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Vassilis Lyberatos [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 18 Dec 2023 14:31:58 UTC (6,776 KB) [v2] Thu, 4 Jan 2024 15:09:37 UTC (6,776 KB) [v3] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 13:41:18 UTC (6,855 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Perceptual Musical Features for Interpretable Audio Tagging, by Vassilis Lyberatos and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
