<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Towards Score Following in Sheet Music Images

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05050v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:32.492448+00:00

## Notes

[1612.05050v1] Towards Score Following in Sheet Music Images Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1612.05050v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:1612.05050v1 (cs) [Submitted on 15 Dec 2016] Title: Towards Score Following in Sheet Music Images Authors: Matthias Dorfer , Andreas Arzt , Gerhard Widmer View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Score Following in Sheet Music Images, by Matthias Dorfer and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper addresses the matching of short music audio snippets to the corresponding pixel location in images of sheet music. A system is presented that simultaneously learns to read notes, listens to music and matches the currently played music to its corresponding notes in the sheet. It consists of an end-to-end multi-modal convolutional neural network that takes as input images of sheet music and spectrograms of the respective audio snippets. It learns to predict, for a given unseen audio snippet (covering approximately one bar of music), the corresponding position in the respective score line. Our results suggest that with the use of (deep) neural networks -- which have proven to be powerful image processing models -- working with sheet music becomes feasible and a promising future research direction. Comments: Published In Proceedings of the 17th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (2016) Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV) Cite as: arXiv:1612.05050 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:1612.05050v1 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1612.05050 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Matthias Dorfer [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 15 Dec 2016 13:10:13 UTC (2,357 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Score Following in Sheet Music Images, by Matthias Dorfer and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2016-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.CV References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Matthias Dorfer Andreas Arzt Gerhard Widmer export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
