<!-- source_type: articles -->
# An automatic mixing speech enhancement system for multi-track audio

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.17821v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:17.320006+00:00

## Notes

[2404.17821v2] An automatic mixing speech enhancement system for multi-track audio Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2404.17821v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2404.17821v2 (cs) [Submitted on 27 Apr 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 18 Oct 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: An automatic mixing speech enhancement system for multi-track audio Authors: Xiaojing Liu , Hongwei Ai , Joshua D. Reiss View a PDF of the paper titled An automatic mixing speech enhancement system for multi-track audio, by Xiaojing Liu and 1 other authors View PDF Abstract: We propose a speech enhancement system for multitrack audio. The system will minimize auditory masking while allowing one to hear multiple simultaneous speakers. The system can be used in multiple communication scenarios e.g., teleconferencing, invoice gaming, and live streaming. The ITU-R BS.1387 Perceptual Evaluation of Audio Quality (PEAQ) model is used to evaluate the amount of masking in the audio signals. Different audio effects e.g., level balance, equalization, dynamic range compression, and spatialization are applied via an iterative Harmony searching algorithm that aims to minimize the masking. In the subjective listening test, the designed system can compete with mixes by professional sound engineers and outperforms mixes by existing auto-mixing systems. Comments: 5 pages Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2404.17821 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2404.17821v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2404.17821 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: XiaoJing Liu [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 27 Apr 2024 08:00:43 UTC (502 KB) [v2] Fri, 18 Oct 2024 21:55:23 UTC (506 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled An automatic mixing speech enhancement system for multi-track audio, by Xiaojing Liu and 1 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
