<!-- source_type: articles -->
# The Wiki Music dataset: A tool for computational analysis of popular music

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10275v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:20.936594+00:00

## Notes

[1908.10275v1] The Wiki Music dataset: A tool for computational analysis of popular music Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1908.10275v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:1908.10275v1 (cs) [Submitted on 27 Aug 2019] Title: The Wiki Music dataset: A tool for computational analysis of popular music Authors: Fabio Celli View a PDF of the paper titled The Wiki Music dataset: A tool for computational analysis of popular music, by Fabio Celli View PDF Abstract: Is it possible use algorithms to find trends in the history of popular music? And is it possible to predict the characteristics of future music genres? In order to answer these questions, we produced a hand-crafted dataset with the intent to put together features about style, psychology, sociology and typology, annotated by music genre and indexed by time and decade. We collected a list of popular genres by decade from Wikipedia and scored music genres based on Wikipedia descriptions. Using statistical and machine learning techniques, we find trends in the musical preferences and use time series forecasting to evaluate the prediction of future music genres. Comments: Copyright 2019, Fabio Celli. 5 pages. Keywords: Popular Music, Computational Music analysis, Wikipedia, Natural Language Processing Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) ; Computers and Society (cs.CY); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:1908.10275 [cs.CL] (or arXiv:1908.10275v1 [cs.CL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1908.10275 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Fabio Celli PhD [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 27 Aug 2019 15:30:56 UTC (497 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled The Wiki Music dataset: A tool for computational analysis of popular music, by Fabio Celli View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CL < prev | next > new | recent | 2019-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.CY cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Fabio Celli export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
