<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Point to the Hidden: Exposing Speech Audio Splicing via Signal Pointer Nets

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05641v4
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:53.621224+00:00

## Notes

[2307.05641v4] Point to the Hidden: Exposing Speech Audio Splicing via Signal Pointer Nets Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2307.05641v4 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2307.05641v4 (eess) [Submitted on 11 Jul 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 3 May 2024 (this version, v4)] Title: Point to the Hidden: Exposing Speech Audio Splicing via Signal Pointer Nets Authors: Denise Moussa , Germans Hirsch , Sebastian Wankerl , Christian Riess View a PDF of the paper titled Point to the Hidden: Exposing Speech Audio Splicing via Signal Pointer Nets, by Denise Moussa and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Verifying the integrity of voice recording evidence for criminal investigations is an integral part of an audio forensic analyst's work. Here, one focus is on detecting deletion or insertion operations, so called audio splicing. While this is a rather easy approach to alter spoken statements, careful editing can yield quite convincing results. For difficult cases or big amounts of data, automated tools can support in detecting potential editing locations. To this end, several analytical and deep learning methods have been proposed by now. Still, few address unconstrained splicing scenarios as expected in practice. With SigPointer, we propose a pointer network framework for continuous input that uncovers splice locations naturally and more efficiently than existing works. Extensive experiments on forensically challenging data like strongly compressed and noisy signals quantify the benefit of the pointer mechanism with performance increases between about 6 to 10 percentage points. Comments: published at Interspeech 2023 - Code: this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2307.05641 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2307.05641v4 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.05641 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proc. INTERSPEECH 2023, 5057-5061 (2023) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.21437/Interspeech.2023-996 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Denise Moussa [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 11 Jul 2023 10:14:59 UTC (1,208 KB) [v2] Wed, 2 Aug 2023 11:51:53 UTC (1,687 KB) [v3] Thu, 18 Jan 2024 14:12:55 UTC (1,687 KB) [v4] Fri, 3 May 2024 15:26:07 UTC (447 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Point to the Hidden: Exposing Speech Audio Splicing via Signal Pointer Nets, by Denise Moussa and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
