<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Learning Higher-Order Interactions in Brain Networks via Topological Signal Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.07695v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:17.511826+00:00

## Notes

[2504.07695v1] Learning Higher-Order Interactions in Brain Networks via Topological Signal Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2504.07695v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2504.07695v1 (eess) [Submitted on 10 Apr 2025] Title: Learning Higher-Order Interactions in Brain Networks via Topological Signal Processing Authors: Breno C. Bispo , Stefania Sardellitti , Fernando A. N. Santos , Juliano B. Lima View a PDF of the paper titled Learning Higher-Order Interactions in Brain Networks via Topological Signal Processing, by Breno C. Bispo and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Our goal in this paper is to leverage the potential of the topological signal processing (TSP) framework for analyzing brain networks. Representing brain data as signals over simplicial complexes allows us to capture higher-order relationships within brain regions of interest (ROIs). Here, we focus on learning the underlying brain topology from observed neural signals using two distinct inference strategies. The first method relies on higher-order statistical metrics to infer multiway relationships among ROIs. The second method jointly learns the brain topology and sparse signal representations, of both the solenoidal and harmonic components of the signals, by minimizing the total variation along triangles and the data-fitting errors. Leveraging the properties of solenoidal and irrotational signals, and their physical interpretations, we extract functional connectivity features from brain topologies and uncover new insights into functional organization patterns. This allows us to associate brain functional connectivity (FC) patterns of conservative signals with well-known functional segregation and integration properties. Our findings align with recent neuroscience research, suggesting that our approach may offer a promising pathway for characterizing the higher-order brain functional connectivities. Comments: Submitted to the 33rd European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO 2025), 5 pages, 2 figures Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2504.07695 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2504.07695v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.07695 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Stefania Sardellitti [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 10 Apr 2025 12:28:10 UTC (3,263 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Learning Higher-Order Interactions in Brain Networks via Topological Signal Processing, by Breno C. Bispo and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-04 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
