<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Differentiable Signal Processing With Black-Box Audio Effects

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2105.04752v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:04.280261+00:00

## Notes

[2105.04752v1] Differentiable Signal Processing With Black-Box Audio Effects Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2105.04752v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2105.04752v1 (eess) [Submitted on 11 May 2021] Title: Differentiable Signal Processing With Black-Box Audio Effects Authors: Marco A. Martínez Ramírez , Oliver Wang , Paris Smaragdis , Nicholas J. Bryan View a PDF of the paper titled Differentiable Signal Processing With Black-Box Audio Effects, by Marco A. Mart\'inez Ram\'irez and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: We present a data-driven approach to automate audio signal processing by incorporating stateful third-party, audio effects as layers within a deep neural network. We then train a deep encoder to analyze input audio and control effect parameters to perform the desired signal manipulation, requiring only input-target paired audio data as supervision. To train our network with non-differentiable black-box effects layers, we use a fast, parallel stochastic gradient approximation scheme within a standard auto differentiation graph, yielding efficient end-to-end backpropagation. We demonstrate the power of our approach with three separate automatic audio production applications: tube amplifier emulation, automatic removal of breaths and pops from voice recordings, and automatic music mastering. We validate our results with a subjective listening test, showing our approach not only can enable new automatic audio effects tasks, but can yield results comparable to a specialized, state-of-the-art commercial solution for music mastering. Comments: Presented at the IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), June 2021. Source code, demo and audio examples: this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2105.04752 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2105.04752v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2105.04752 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Marco A. Martínez Ramírez [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 11 May 2021 02:20:22 UTC (19,117 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Differentiable Signal Processing With Black-Box Audio Effects, by Marco A. Mart\'inez Ram\'irez and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess eess.SP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
