<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Multi-Input Multi-Output Target-Speaker Voice Activity Detection For Unified, Flexible, and Robust Audio-Visual Speaker Diarization

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08052v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:29.712436+00:00

## Notes

[2401.08052v3] Multi-Input Multi-Output Target-Speaker Voice Activity Detection For Unified, Flexible, and Robust Audio-Visual Speaker Diarization Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2401.08052v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2401.08052v3 (eess) [Submitted on 16 Jan 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 31 Jul 2025 (this version, v3)] Title: Multi-Input Multi-Output Target-Speaker Voice Activity Detection For Unified, Flexible, and Robust Audio-Visual Speaker Diarization Authors: Ming Cheng , Ming Li View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-Input Multi-Output Target-Speaker Voice Activity Detection For Unified, Flexible, and Robust Audio-Visual Speaker Diarization, by Ming Cheng and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Audio-visual learning has demonstrated promising results in many classical speech tasks (e.g., speech separation, automatic speech recognition, wake-word spotting). We believe that introducing visual modality will also benefit speaker diarization. To date, Target-Speaker Voice Activity Detection (TS-VAD) plays an important role in highly accurate speaker diarization. However, previous TS-VAD models take audio features and utilize the speaker's acoustic footprint to distinguish his or her personal speech activities, which is easily affected by overlapped speech in multi-speaker scenarios. Although visual information naturally tolerates overlapped speech, it suffers from spatial occlusion, low resolution, etc. The potential modality-missing problem blocks TS-VAD towards an audio-visual approach. This paper proposes a novel Multi-Input Multi-Output Target-Speaker Voice Activity Detection (MIMO-TSVAD) framework for speaker diarization. The proposed method can take audio-visual input and leverage the speaker's acoustic footprint or lip track to flexibly conduct audio-based, video-based, and audio-visual speaker diarization in a unified sequence-to-sequence framework. Experimental results show that the MIMO-TSVAD framework demonstrates state-of-the-art performance on the VoxConverse, DIHARD-III, and MISP 2022 datasets under corresponding evaluation metrics, obtaining the Diarization Error Rates (DERs) of 4.18%, 10.10%, and 8.15%, respectively. In addition, it can perform robustly in heavy lip-missing scenarios. Comments: Accepted by IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2401.08052 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2401.08052v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.08052 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Ming Cheng [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 16 Jan 2024 02:06:28 UTC (865 KB) [v2] Fri, 1 Mar 2024 02:22:31 UTC (891 KB) [v3] Thu, 31 Jul 2025 10:50:49 UTC (994 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Multi-Input Multi-Output Target-Speaker Voice Activity Detection For Unified, Flexible, and Robust Audio-Visual Speaker Diarization, by Ming Cheng and 1 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
