<!-- source_type: articles -->
# LP-MusicCaps: LLM-Based Pseudo Music Captioning

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16372v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:45.109393+00:00

## Notes

[2307.16372v1] LP-MusicCaps: LLM-Based Pseudo Music Captioning Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2307.16372v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2307.16372v1 (cs) [Submitted on 31 Jul 2023] Title: LP-MusicCaps: LLM-Based Pseudo Music Captioning Authors: SeungHeon Doh , Keunwoo Choi , Jongpil Lee , Juhan Nam View a PDF of the paper titled LP-MusicCaps: LLM-Based Pseudo Music Captioning, by SeungHeon Doh and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Automatic music captioning, which generates natural language descriptions for given music tracks, holds significant potential for enhancing the understanding and organization of large volumes of musical data. Despite its importance, researchers face challenges due to the costly and time-consuming collection process of existing music-language datasets, which are limited in size. To address this data scarcity issue, we propose the use of large language models (LLMs) to artificially generate the description sentences from large-scale tag datasets. This results in approximately 2.2M captions paired with 0.5M audio clips. We term it Large Language Model based Pseudo music caption dataset, shortly, LP-MusicCaps. We conduct a systemic evaluation of the large-scale music captioning dataset with various quantitative evaluation metrics used in the field of natural language processing as well as human evaluation. In addition, we trained a transformer-based music captioning model with the dataset and evaluated it under zero-shot and transfer-learning settings. The results demonstrate that our proposed approach outperforms the supervised baseline model. Comments: Accepted for publication at the 24th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2023) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2307.16372 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2307.16372v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.16372 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: SeungHeon Doh [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 31 Jul 2023 02:32:02 UTC (1,498 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled LP-MusicCaps: LLM-Based Pseudo Music Captioning, by SeungHeon Doh and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 1 blog link ( what is this? ) export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
