<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Voice Signal Processing for Machine Learning. The Case of Speaker Isolation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20202v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:57.158961+00:00

## Notes

[2403.20202v1] Voice Signal Processing for Machine Learning. The Case of Speaker Isolation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2403.20202v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2403.20202v1 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Mar 2024] Title: Voice Signal Processing for Machine Learning. The Case of Speaker Isolation Authors: Radan Ganchev View a PDF of the paper titled Voice Signal Processing for Machine Learning. The Case of Speaker Isolation, by Radan Ganchev View PDF Abstract: The widespread use of automated voice assistants along with other recent technological developments have increased the demand for applications that process audio signals and human voice in particular. Voice recognition tasks are typically performed using artificial intelligence and machine learning models. Even though end-to-end models exist, properly pre-processing the signal can greatly reduce the complexity of the task and allow it to be solved with a simpler ML model and fewer computational resources. However, ML engineers who work on such tasks might not have a background in signal processing which is an entirely different area of expertise. The objective of this work is to provide a concise comparative analysis of Fourier and Wavelet transforms that are most commonly used as signal decomposition methods for audio processing tasks. Metrics for evaluating speech intelligibility are also discussed, namely Scale-Invariant Signal-to-Distortion Ratio (SI-SDR), Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality (PESQ), and Short-Time Objective Intelligibility (STOI). The level of detail in the exposition is meant to be sufficient for an ML engineer to make informed decisions when choosing, fine-tuning, and evaluating a decomposition method for a specific ML model. The exposition contains mathematical definitions of the relevant concepts accompanied with intuitive non-mathematical explanations in order to make the text more accessible to engineers without deep expertise in signal processing. Formal mathematical definitions and proofs of theorems are intentionally omitted in order to keep the text concise. Comments: MSc. thesis. for associated source code, see this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2403.20202 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2403.20202v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2403.20202 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Radan Ganchev [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 29 Mar 2024 14:31:36 UTC (3,951 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Voice Signal Processing for Machine Learning. The Case of Speaker Isolation, by Radan Ganchev View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-03 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
