<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Towards Diverse and Efficient Audio Captioning via Diffusion Models

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09401v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:05.991349+00:00

## Notes

[2409.09401v2] Towards Diverse and Efficient Audio Captioning via Diffusion Models Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2409.09401v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:2409.09401v2 (cs) [Submitted on 14 Sep 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 1 Jun 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: Towards Diverse and Efficient Audio Captioning via Diffusion Models Authors: Manjie Xu , Chenxing Li , Xinyi Tu , Yong Ren , Ruibo Fu , Wei Liang , Dong Yu View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Diverse and Efficient Audio Captioning via Diffusion Models, by Manjie Xu and 6 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: We introduce Diffusion-based Audio Captioning (DAC), a non-autoregressive diffusion model tailored for diverse and efficient audio captioning. Although existing captioning models relying on language backbones have achieved remarkable success in various captioning tasks, their insufficient performance in terms of generation speed and diversity impede progress in audio understanding and multimedia applications. Our diffusion-based framework offers unique advantages stemming from its inherent stochasticity and holistic context modeling in captioning. Through rigorous evaluation, we demonstrate that DAC not only achieves SOTA performance levels compared to existing benchmarks in the caption quality, but also significantly outperforms them in terms of generation speed and diversity. The success of DAC illustrates that text generation can also be seamlessly integrated with audio and visual generation tasks using a diffusion backbone, paving the way for a unified, audio-related generative model across different modalities. Comments: this https URL Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) Cite as: arXiv:2409.09401 [cs.CL] (or arXiv:2409.09401v2 [cs.CL] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.09401 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Manjie Xu [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 14 Sep 2024 10:23:35 UTC (839 KB) [v2] Sun, 1 Jun 2025 07:01:51 UTC (777 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Towards Diverse and Efficient Audio Captioning via Diffusion Models, by Manjie Xu and 6 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.CL < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
