<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Nested Music Transformer: Sequentially Decoding Compound Tokens in Symbolic Music and Audio Generation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.01180v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:08.402969+00:00

## Notes

[2408.01180v2] Nested Music Transformer: Sequentially Decoding Compound Tokens in Symbolic Music and Audio Generation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2408.01180v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2408.01180v2 (cs) [Submitted on 2 Aug 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 16 Mar 2026 (this version, v2)] Title: Nested Music Transformer: Sequentially Decoding Compound Tokens in Symbolic Music and Audio Generation Authors: HaeJun Yoo , Hao-Wen Dong , Jongmin Jung , Dasaem Jeong View a PDF of the paper titled Nested Music Transformer: Sequentially Decoding Compound Tokens in Symbolic Music and Audio Generation, by HaeJun Yoo and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Representing symbolic music with compound tokens, where each token consists of several different sub-tokens representing a distinct musical feature or attribute, offers the advantage of reducing sequence length. While previous research has validated the efficacy of compound tokens in music sequence modeling, predicting all sub-tokens simultaneously can lead to suboptimal results as it may not fully capture the interdependencies between them. We introduce the Nested Music Transformer (NMT), an architecture tailored for decoding compound tokens autoregressively, similar to processing flattened tokens, but with low memory usage. The NMT consists of two transformers: the main decoder that models a sequence of compound tokens and the sub-decoder for modeling sub-tokens of each compound token. The experiment results showed that applying the NMT to compound tokens can enhance the performance in terms of better perplexity in processing various symbolic music datasets and discrete audio tokens from the MAESTRO dataset. Comments: Accepted at 25th International Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR 2024) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2408.01180 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2408.01180v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2408.01180 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: HaeJun Yoo [ view email ] [v1] Fri, 2 Aug 2024 11:02:38 UTC (990 KB) [v2] Mon, 16 Mar 2026 05:20:58 UTC (562 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Nested Music Transformer: Sequentially Decoding Compound Tokens in Symbolic Music and Audio Generation, by HaeJun Yoo and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.IR cs.LG eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
