<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Interfacing with history: Curating with audio augmented objects

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07345v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:10.611303+00:00

## Notes

[2412.07345v1] Interfacing with history: Curating with audio augmented objects Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2412.07345v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Human-Computer Interaction arXiv:2412.07345v1 (cs) [Submitted on 10 Dec 2024] Title: Interfacing with history: Curating with audio augmented objects Authors: Laurence Cliffe View a PDF of the paper titled Interfacing with history: Curating with audio augmented objects, by Laurence Cliffe View PDF Abstract: This article presents and discusses the results from visitors' interactions with two audio augmented reality experiences containing audio augmented objects; physical, real-world objects to which virtual audio sources have been attached. It then proceeds to discusses the commonly identified themes arising from the observation of visitors' behaviour within these experiences and the analysis of their verbal and written feedback. The curatorial potential of audio augmented objects is discussed and, by way of conclusion, their functionality as interfaces to digital audio archival content is proposed, along with their ability to reframe, re-contextualise and create renewed experiences with existing collections of silenced museum exhibits. Comments: 32 pages, 5 figures Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2412.07345 [cs.HC] (or arXiv:2412.07345v1 [cs.HC] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2412.07345 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Cliffe, Laurence. (2024). Interfacing with history: curating with audio augmented objects. Museum Management and Curatorship. 1-19. 10.1080/09647775.2024.2431899 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1080/09647775.2024.2431899 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Laurence Cliffe [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 10 Dec 2024 09:37:59 UTC (4,440 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Interfacing with history: Curating with audio augmented objects, by Laurence Cliffe View PDF view license Current browse context: cs.HC < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-12 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
