<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Tracking Target Signal Strengths on a Grid using Sparsity

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5288v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:18.060000+00:00

## Notes

[1104.5288v1] Tracking Target Signal Strengths on a Grid using Sparsity Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1104.5288v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Systems and Control arXiv:1104.5288v1 (cs) [Submitted on 28 Apr 2011] Title: Tracking Target Signal Strengths on a Grid using Sparsity Authors: Shahrokh Farahmand , Georgios B. Giannakis , Geert Leus , Zhi Tian View a PDF of the paper titled Tracking Target Signal Strengths on a Grid using Sparsity, by Shahrokh Farahmand and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Multi-target tracking is mainly challenged by the nonlinearity present in the measurement equation, and the difficulty in fast and accurate data association. To overcome these challenges, the present paper introduces a grid-based model in which the state captures target signal strengths on a known spatial grid (TSSG). This model leads to \emph{linear} state and measurement equations, which bypass data association and can afford state estimation via sparsity-aware Kalman filtering (KF). Leveraging the grid-induced sparsity of the novel model, two types of sparsity-cognizant TSSG-KF trackers are developed: one effects sparsity through $\ell_1$-norm regularization, and the other invokes sparsity as an extra measurement. Iterative extended KF and Gauss-Newton algorithms are developed for reduced-complexity tracking, along with accurate error covariance updates for assessing performance of the resultant sparsity-aware state estimators. Based on TSSG state estimates, more informative target position and track estimates can be obtained in a follow-up step, ensuring that track association and position estimation errors do not propagate back into TSSG state estimates. The novel TSSG trackers do not require knowing the number of targets or their signal strengths, and exhibit considerably lower complexity than the benchmark hidden Markov model filter, especially for a large number of targets. Numerical simulations demonstrate that sparsity-cognizant trackers enjoy improved root mean-square error performance at reduced complexity when compared to their sparsity-agnostic counterparts. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Trans. on Signal Processing Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY) ; Optimization and Control (math.OC); Applications (stat.AP) Cite as: arXiv:1104.5288 [cs.SY] (or arXiv:1104.5288v1 [cs.SY] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1104.5288 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Eurasip Journal on Advances in Signal Processing 2014 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1186/1687-6180-2014-7 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Shahrokh Farahmand [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 28 Apr 2011 03:39:52 UTC (118 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Tracking Target Signal Strengths on a Grid using Sparsity, by Shahrokh Farahmand and 3 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.SY < prev | next > new | recent | 2011-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.SY math math.OC stat stat.AP References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Shahrokh Farahmand Georgios B. Giannakis Geert Leus Zhi Tian export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
