<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Fast and Accurate Amplitude Demodulation of Wideband Signals

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.04832v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:14.783490+00:00

## Notes

[2102.04832v2] Fast and Accurate Amplitude Demodulation of Wideband Signals Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2102.04832v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2102.04832v2 (eess) [Submitted on 9 Feb 2021 ( v1 ), last revised 7 Jun 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Fast and Accurate Amplitude Demodulation of Wideband Signals Authors: Mantas Gabrielaitis View a PDF of the paper titled Fast and Accurate Amplitude Demodulation of Wideband Signals, by Mantas Gabrielaitis View PDF Abstract: Amplitude demodulation is a classical operation used in signal processing. For a long time, its effective applications in practice have been limited to narrowband signals. In this work, we generalize amplitude demodulation to wideband signals. We pose demodulation as a recovery problem of an oversampled corrupted signal and introduce special iterative schemes belonging to the family of alternating projection algorithms to solve it. Sensibly chosen structural assumptions on the demodulation outputs allow us to reveal the high inferential accuracy of the method over a rich set of relevant signals. This new approach surpasses current state-of-the-art demodulation techniques apt to wideband signals in computational efficiency by up to many orders of magnitude with no sacrifice in quality. Such performance opens the door for applications of the amplitude demodulation procedure in new contexts. In particular, the new method makes online and large-scale offline data processing feasible, including the calculation of modulator-carrier pairs in higher dimensions and poor sampling conditions, independent of the signal bandwidth. We illustrate the utility and specifics of applications of the new method in practice by using natural speech and synthetic signals. Comments: Accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2102.04832 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2102.04832v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2102.04832 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1121/10.0004762 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Mantas Gabrielaitis [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 9 Feb 2021 14:06:29 UTC (4,315 KB) [v2] Mon, 7 Jun 2021 17:07:10 UTC (4,506 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Fast and Accurate Amplitude Demodulation of Wideband Signals, by Mantas Gabrielaitis View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2021-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
