<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Novel Signal Processing Strategy for Short-Range Laser Feedback Interferometry Sensors

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10705v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:25.739617+00:00

## Notes

[2506.10705v1] A Novel Signal Processing Strategy for Short-Range Laser Feedback Interferometry Sensors Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2506.10705v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2506.10705v1 (eess) [Submitted on 12 Jun 2025] Title: A Novel Signal Processing Strategy for Short-Range Laser Feedback Interferometry Sensors Authors: Alexander Zimmer , Johannes Meyer , Enkelejda Kasneci View a PDF of the paper titled A Novel Signal Processing Strategy for Short-Range Laser Feedback Interferometry Sensors, by Alexander Zimmer and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The rapid evolution of wearable technologies, such as AR glasses, demands compact, energy-efficient sensors capable of high-precision measurements in dynamic environments. Traditional Frequency-Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) Laser Feedback Interferometry (LFI) sensors, while promising, falter in applications that feature small distances, high velocities, shallow modulation, and low-power constraints. We propose a novel sensor-processing pipeline that reliably extracts distance and velocity measurements at distances as low as 1 cm. As a core contribution, we introduce a four-ramp modulation scheme that resolves persistent ambiguities in beat frequency signs and overcomes spectral blind regions caused by hardware limitations. Based on measurements of the implemented pipeline, a noise model is defined to evaluate its performance and sensitivity to several algorithmic and working point parameters. We show that the pipeline generally achieves robust and low-noise measurements using state-of-the-art hardware. Comments: Accepted to the 2025 25th International Conference on Digital Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2506.10705 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2506.10705v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2506.10705 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Alexander Zimmer [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 12 Jun 2025 13:56:28 UTC (2,807 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Novel Signal Processing Strategy for Short-Range Laser Feedback Interferometry Sensors, by Alexander Zimmer and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-06 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
