<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Autoencoding Neural Networks as Musical Audio Synthesizers

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2004.13172v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:47.778622+00:00

## Notes

[2004.13172v1] Autoencoding Neural Networks as Musical Audio Synthesizers Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2004.13172v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2004.13172v1 (eess) [Submitted on 27 Apr 2020] Title: Autoencoding Neural Networks as Musical Audio Synthesizers Authors: Joseph Colonel , Christopher Curro , Sam Keene View a PDF of the paper titled Autoencoding Neural Networks as Musical Audio Synthesizers, by Joseph Colonel and Christopher Curro and Sam Keene View PDF Abstract: A method for musical audio synthesis using autoencoding neural networks is proposed. The autoencoder is trained to compress and reconstruct magnitude short-time Fourier transform frames. The autoencoder produces a spectrogram by activating its smallest hidden layer, and a phase response is calculated using real-time phase gradient heap integration. Taking an inverse short-time Fourier transform produces the audio signal. Our algorithm is light-weight when compared to current state-of-the-art audio-producing machine learning algorithms. We outline our design process, produce metrics, and detail an open-source Python implementation of our model. Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2004.13172 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2004.13172v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2004.13172 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (DAFx-18), 2018, pp40-44 Submission history From: Joseph Colonel [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 27 Apr 2020 20:58:03 UTC (2,360 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Autoencoding Neural Networks as Musical Audio Synthesizers, by Joseph Colonel and Christopher Curro and Sam Keene View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-04 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
