<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Using perceptive subbands analysis to perform audio scenes cartography

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04127v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:18.990155+00:00

## Notes

[2401.04127v1] Using perceptive subbands analysis to perform audio scenes cartography Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2401.04127v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2401.04127v1 (eess) [Submitted on 5 Jan 2024] Title: Using perceptive subbands analysis to perform audio scenes cartography Authors: Laurent Millot (IDEAC), Gérard Pelé (IDEAC), Mohammed Elliq View a PDF of the paper titled Using perceptive subbands analysis to perform audio scenes cartography, by Laurent Millot (IDEAC) and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Audio scene cartography for real or simulated stereo recordings is presented. This audio scene analysis is performed doing successively: a perceptive 10-subbands analysis, calculation of temporal laws for relative delays and gains between both channels of each subband using a short-time cons\-tant scene assumption and channels inter-correlation which permit to follow a mobile source in its moves, calculation of global and subbands histograms whose peaks give the incidence information for fixed sources. Audio scenes composed of 2 to 4 fixed sources or with a fixed source and a mobile one have been already successfully tested. Further extensions and applications will be discussed. Audio illustrations of audio scenes, subband analysis and demonstration of real-time stereo recording simulations will be this http URL 6340 presented at the 118th Convention of the Audio Engineering Society, Barcelona, 2005 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph) Cite as: arXiv:2401.04127 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2401.04127v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.04127 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: 118th Convention of the Audio Engineering Society, Audio Engineering Society, May 2005, Barcelone (Espagne), Spain Submission history From: Laurent Millot [ view email ] [via CCSD proxy] [v1] Fri, 5 Jan 2024 10:03:47 UTC (240 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Using perceptive subbands analysis to perform audio scenes cartography, by Laurent Millot (IDEAC) and 2 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.SP physics physics.class-ph References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
