<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Distortion Audio Effects: Learning How to Recover the Clean Signal

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2202.01664v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:28.634157+00:00

## Notes

[2202.01664v3] Distortion Audio Effects: Learning How to Recover the Clean Signal Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2202.01664v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2202.01664v3 (eess) [Submitted on 3 Feb 2022 ( v1 ), last revised 13 Sep 2022 (this version, v3)] Title: Distortion Audio Effects: Learning How to Recover the Clean Signal Authors: Johannes Imort , Giorgio Fabbro , Marco A. Martínez Ramírez , Stefan Uhlich , Yuichiro Koyama , Yuki Mitsufuji View a PDF of the paper titled Distortion Audio Effects: Learning How to Recover the Clean Signal, by Johannes Imort and 5 other authors View PDF Abstract: Given the recent advances in music source separation and automatic mixing, removing audio effects in music tracks is a meaningful step toward developing an automated remixing system. This paper focuses on removing distortion audio effects applied to guitar tracks in music production. We explore whether effect removal can be solved by neural networks designed for source separation and audio effect modeling. Our approach proves particularly effective for effects that mix the processed and clean signals. The models achieve better quality and significantly faster inference compared to state-of-the-art solutions based on sparse optimization. We demonstrate that the models are suitable not only for declipping but also for other types of distortion effects. By discussing the results, we stress the usefulness of multiple evaluation metrics to assess different aspects of reconstruction in distortion effect removal. Comments: Audio examples available at this https URL Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2202.01664 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2202.01664v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2202.01664 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Johannes Imort [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 3 Feb 2022 16:26:29 UTC (444 KB) [v2] Mon, 23 May 2022 06:41:05 UTC (445 KB) [v3] Tue, 13 Sep 2022 11:23:27 UTC (926 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Distortion Audio Effects: Learning How to Recover the Clean Signal, by Johannes Imort and 5 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2022-02 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
