<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Learning Speech Representations from Raw Audio by Joint Audiovisual Self-Supervision

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2007.04134v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:43.714703+00:00

## Notes

[2007.04134v1] Learning Speech Representations from Raw Audio by Joint Audiovisual Self-Supervision Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2007.04134v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2007.04134v1 (eess) [Submitted on 8 Jul 2020] Title: Learning Speech Representations from Raw Audio by Joint Audiovisual Self-Supervision Authors: Abhinav Shukla , Stavros Petridis , Maja Pantic View a PDF of the paper titled Learning Speech Representations from Raw Audio by Joint Audiovisual Self-Supervision, by Abhinav Shukla and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: The intuitive interaction between the audio and visual modalities is valuable for cross-modal self-supervised learning. This concept has been demonstrated for generic audiovisual tasks like video action recognition and acoustic scene classification. However, self-supervision remains under-explored for audiovisual speech. We propose a method to learn self-supervised speech representations from the raw audio waveform. We train a raw audio encoder by combining audio-only self-supervision (by predicting informative audio attributes) with visual self-supervision (by generating talking faces from audio). The visual pretext task drives the audio representations to capture information related to lip movements. This enriches the audio encoder with visual information and the encoder can be used for evaluation without the visual modality. Our method attains competitive performance with respect to existing self-supervised audio features on established isolated word classification benchmarks, and significantly outperforms other methods at learning from fewer labels. Notably, our method also outperforms fully supervised training, thus providing a strong initialization for speech related tasks. Our results demonstrate the potential of multimodal self-supervision in audiovisual speech for learning good audio representations. Comments: Accepted at the Workshop on Self-supervision in Audio and Speech at ICML 2020 Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2007.04134 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2007.04134v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2007.04134 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Abhinav Shukla [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 8 Jul 2020 14:07:06 UTC (1,549 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Learning Speech Representations from Raw Audio by Joint Audiovisual Self-Supervision, by Abhinav Shukla and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL cs.CV cs.LG cs.MM cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
