<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Analog-to-Digital Compression: A New Paradigm for Converting Signals to Bits

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1801.06718v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:10.817547+00:00

## Notes

[1801.06718v1] Analog-to-Digital Compression: A New Paradigm for Converting Signals to Bits Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1801.06718v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Information Theory arXiv:1801.06718v1 (cs) [Submitted on 20 Jan 2018] Title: Analog-to-Digital Compression: A New Paradigm for Converting Signals to Bits Authors: Alon Kipnis , Yonina C. Eldar , Andrea J. Goldsmith View a PDF of the paper titled Analog-to-Digital Compression: A New Paradigm for Converting Signals to Bits, by Alon Kipnis and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: Processing, storing and communicating information that originates as an analog signal involves conversion of this information to bits. This conversion can be described by the combined effect of sampling and quantization, as illustrated in Fig. 1. The digital representation is achieved by first sampling the analog signal so as to represent it by a set of discrete-time samples and then quantizing these samples to a finite number of bits. Traditionally, these two operations are considered separately. The sampler is designed to minimize information loss due to sampling based on characteristics of the continuous-time input. The quantizer is designed to represent the samples as accurately as possible, subject to a constraint on the number of bits that can be used in the representation. The goal of this article is to revisit this paradigm by illuminating the dependency between these two operations. In particular, we explore the requirements on the sampling system subject to constraints on the available number of bits for storing, communicating or processing the analog information. Comments: to appear in "Signal Processing Magazine" Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT) ; Systems and Control (eess.SY) Cite as: arXiv:1801.06718 [cs.IT] (or arXiv:1801.06718v1 [cs.IT] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1801.06718 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2017.2774249 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Alon Kipnis [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 20 Jan 2018 19:50:14 UTC (4,412 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Analog-to-Digital Compression: A New Paradigm for Converting Signals to Bits, by Alon Kipnis and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.IT < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.SY math math.IT References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Alon Kipnis Yonina C. Eldar Andrea J. Goldsmith export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
