<!-- source_type: articles -->
# A Design of Denser-Graph-Frequency Graph Fourier Frames for Graph Signal Analysis

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13164v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:47.662067+00:00

## Notes

[2503.13164v1] A Design of Denser-Graph-Frequency Graph Fourier Frames for Graph Signal Analysis Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2503.13164v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2503.13164v1 (eess) [Submitted on 17 Mar 2025] Title: A Design of Denser-Graph-Frequency Graph Fourier Frames for Graph Signal Analysis Authors: Kaito Nitani , Seisuke Kyochi View a PDF of the paper titled A Design of Denser-Graph-Frequency Graph Fourier Frames for Graph Signal Analysis, by Kaito Nitani and Seisuke Kyochi View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: This paper introduces a design method for densergraph-frequency graph Fourier frames (DGFFs) to enhance graph signal processing and analysis. The graph Fourier transform (GFT) enables us to analyze graph signals in the graph spectral domain and facilitates various graph signal processing tasks, such as filtering, sampling and reconstruction, denoising, and so on. However, the conventional GFT faces two significant limitations. First, unlike the discrete Fourier transform and its variants (such as discrete cosine transforms), the graph frequencies of the derived graph Fourier basis (GFB) from a given graph tend to be unevenly distributed or localized, which leads to biased spectral analysis. Second, the GFB used in GFT does not provide an efficient sparse representation of graph signals compared to overcomplete systems like frames. To overcome these challenges, we propose adding oscillating vectors with intermediate graph frequencies between the original vectors in the GFB for both undirected and directed graphs, constructing GFFs with densergraph frequencies. The resulting DGFFs are expected to enable more accurate graph signal analysis. Furthermore, we propose a graph filtering method based on the DGFFs. In experiments, we apply the DGFFs to practical applications such as graph signal recovery, demonstrating superior performance compared to existing GFBs. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2503.13164 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2503.13164v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2503.13164 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Seisuke Kyochi Dr. [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 17 Mar 2025 13:37:01 UTC (11,126 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled A Design of Denser-Graph-Frequency Graph Fourier Frames for Graph Signal Analysis, by Kaito Nitani and Seisuke Kyochi View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-03 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
