<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Epigraphical Relaxation for Minimizing Layered Mixed Norms

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2008.04565v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:10:54.436839+00:00

## Notes

[2008.04565v2] Epigraphical Relaxation for Minimizing Layered Mixed Norms Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2008.04565v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2008.04565v2 (eess) [Submitted on 11 Aug 2020 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Jun 2021 (this version, v2)] Title: Epigraphical Relaxation for Minimizing Layered Mixed Norms Authors: Seisuke Kyochi , Shunsuke Ono , Ivan Selesnick View a PDF of the paper titled Epigraphical Relaxation for Minimizing Layered Mixed Norms, by Seisuke Kyochi and 2 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper proposes an epigraphical relaxation (ERx) technique for non-proximable mixed norm minimization. Mixed norm regularization methods play a central role in signal reconstruction and processing, where their optimization relies on the fact that the proximity operators of the mixed norms can be computed efficiently. To bring out the power of regularization, sophisticated layered modeling of mixed norms that can capture inherent signal structure is a key ingredient, but the proximity operator of such a mixed norm is often unavailable (non-proximable). Our ERx decouples a layered non-proximable mixed norm into a norm and multiple epigraphical constraints. This enables us to handle a wide range of non-proximable mixed norms in optimization, as long as both the proximal operator of the outermost norm and the projection onto each epigraphical constraint are efficiently computable. Moreover, under mild conditions, we prove that ERx does not change the minimizer of the original problem despite relaxing equality constraints into inequality ones. We also develop new regularizers based on ERx: one is decorrelated structure-tensor total variation for color image restoration, and the other is amplitude-spectrum nuclear norm for low-rank amplitude recovery. We examine the power of these regularizers through experiments, which illustrates the utility of ERx. Comments: accepted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Optimization and Control (math.OC) Cite as: arXiv:2008.04565 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2008.04565v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2008.04565 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 69, pp. 2923-2938, 2021 Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2021.3056598 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Seisuke Kyochi Dr. [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 11 Aug 2020 07:35:02 UTC (22,435 KB) [v2] Tue, 8 Jun 2021 11:21:56 UTC (30,012 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Epigraphical Relaxation for Minimizing Layered Mixed Norms, by Seisuke Kyochi and 2 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-08 Change to browse by: eess math math.OC References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
