<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Integrating IP Broadcasting with Audio Tags: Workflow and Challenges

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.15423v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:01.995795+00:00

## Notes

[2407.15423v3] Integrating IP Broadcasting with Audio Tags: Workflow and Challenges Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2407.15423v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2407.15423v3 (eess) [Submitted on 22 Jul 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 25 Jul 2025 (this version, v3)] Title: Integrating IP Broadcasting with Audio Tags: Workflow and Challenges Authors: Rhys Burchett-Vass , Arshdeep Singh , Gabriel Bibbó , Mark D. Plumbley View a PDF of the paper titled Integrating IP Broadcasting with Audio Tags: Workflow and Challenges, by Rhys Burchett-Vass and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The broadcasting industry has adopted IP technologies, revolutionising both live and pre-recorded content production, from news gathering to live music events. IP broadcasting allows for the transport of audio and video signals in an easily configurable way, aligning with modern networking techniques. This shift towards an IP workflow allows for much greater flexibility, not only in routing signals but with the integration of tools using standard web development techniques. One possible tool could include the use of live audio tagging, which has a number of uses in the production of content. These could include adding sound effects to automated closed captioning or identifying unwanted sound events within a scene. In this paper, we describe the process of containerising an audio tagging model into a microservice, a small segregated code module that can be integrated into a multitude of different network setups. The goal is to develop a modular, accessible, and flexible tool capable of seamless deployment into broadcasting workflows of all sizes, from small productions to large corporations. Challenges surrounding latency of the selected audio tagging model and its effect on the usefulness of the end product are discussed. Comments: Accepted for publication in 2025 AES International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Audio Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2407.15423 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2407.15423v3 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.15423 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Arshdeep Singh [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 22 Jul 2024 07:00:21 UTC (808 KB) [v2] Tue, 23 Jul 2024 08:46:03 UTC (808 KB) [v3] Fri, 25 Jul 2025 15:18:16 UTC (626 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Integrating IP Broadcasting with Audio Tags: Workflow and Challenges, by Rhys Burchett-Vass and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-07 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.MM cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
