<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Sparks of Large Audio Models: A Survey and Outlook

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12792v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:58:07.035962+00:00

## Notes

[2308.12792v3] Sparks of Large Audio Models: A Survey and Outlook Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2308.12792v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2308.12792v3 (cs) [Submitted on 24 Aug 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 22 Sep 2023 (this version, v3)] Title: Sparks of Large Audio Models: A Survey and Outlook Authors: Siddique Latif , Moazzam Shoukat , Fahad Shamshad , Muhammad Usama , Yi Ren , Heriberto Cuayáhuitl , Wenwu Wang , Xulong Zhang , Roberto Togneri , Erik Cambria , Björn W. Schuller View a PDF of the paper titled Sparks of Large Audio Models: A Survey and Outlook, by Siddique Latif and 10 other authors View PDF Abstract: This survey paper provides a comprehensive overview of the recent advancements and challenges in applying large language models to the field of audio signal processing. Audio processing, with its diverse signal representations and a wide range of sources--from human voices to musical instruments and environmental sounds--poses challenges distinct from those found in traditional Natural Language Processing scenarios. Nevertheless, \textit{Large Audio Models}, epitomized by transformer-based architectures, have shown marked efficacy in this sphere. By leveraging massive amount of data, these models have demonstrated prowess in a variety of audio tasks, spanning from Automatic Speech Recognition and Text-To-Speech to Music Generation, among others. Notably, recently these Foundational Audio Models, like SeamlessM4T, have started showing abilities to act as universal translators, supporting multiple speech tasks for up to 100 languages without any reliance on separate task-specific systems. This paper presents an in-depth analysis of state-of-the-art methodologies regarding \textit{Foundational Large Audio Models}, their performance benchmarks, and their applicability to real-world scenarios. We also highlight current limitations and provide insights into potential future research directions in the realm of \textit{Large Audio Models} with the intent to spark further discussion, thereby fostering innovation in the next generation of audio-processing systems. Furthermore, to cope with the rapid development in this area, we will consistently update the relevant repository with relevant recent articles and their open-source implementations at this https URL . Comments: Under review, Repo URL: this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2308.12792 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2308.12792v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.12792 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Siddique Latif [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 24 Aug 2023 13:47:16 UTC (6,094 KB) [v2] Sun, 3 Sep 2023 13:47:02 UTC (24,591 KB) [v3] Fri, 22 Sep 2023 01:44:46 UTC (25,018 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Sparks of Large Audio Models: A Survey and Outlook, by Siddique Latif and 10 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-08 Change to browse by: cs eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
