<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Graphon Filters: Graph Signal Processing in the Limit

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2003.02099v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:55.406562+00:00

## Notes

[2003.02099v1] Graphon Filters: Graph Signal Processing in the Limit Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2003.02099v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:2003.02099v1 (eess) [Submitted on 4 Mar 2020] Title: Graphon Filters: Graph Signal Processing in the Limit Authors: Matthew W. Morency , Geert Leus View a PDF of the paper titled Graphon Filters: Graph Signal Processing in the Limit, by Matthew W. Morency and Geert Leus View PDF Abstract: Graph signal processing is an emerging field which aims to model processes that exist on the nodes of a network and are explained through diffusion over this structure. Graph signal processing works have heretofore assumed knowledge of the graph shift operator. Our approach is to investigate the question of graph filtering on a graph about which we only know a model. To do this we leverage the theory of graphons proposed by L. Lovasz and B. Szegedy. We make three key contributions to the emerging field of graph signal processing. We show first that filters defined over the scaled adjacency matrix of a random graph drawn from a graphon converge to filters defined over the Fredholm integral operator with the graphon as its kernel. Second, leveraging classical findings from the theory of the numerical solution of Fredholm integral equations, we define the Fourier-Galerkin shift operator. Lastly, using the Fourier-Galerkin shift operator, we derive a graph filter design algorithm which only depends on the graphon, and thus depends only on the probabilistic structure of the graph instead of the particular graph itself. The derived graphon filtering algorithm is verified through simulations on a variety of random graph models. Comments: 13 pages, 14 figures, submitted to Transactions on Signal Processing January 30th 2020 Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) Cite as: arXiv:2003.02099 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:2003.02099v1 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2003.02099 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2021.3061575 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Matthew Morency [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 4 Mar 2020 14:32:01 UTC (7,499 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Graphon Filters: Graph Signal Processing in the Limit, by Matthew W. Morency and Geert Leus View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2020-03 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
