<!-- source_type: articles -->
# The Whole Is Greater than the Sum of Its Parts: Improving Music Source Separation by Bridging Network

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07855v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:57.196761+00:00

## Notes

[2305.07855v2] The Whole Is Greater than the Sum of Its Parts: Improving Music Source Separation by Bridging Network Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2305.07855v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2305.07855v2 (eess) [Submitted on 13 May 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 6 Aug 2024 (this version, v2)] Title: The Whole Is Greater than the Sum of Its Parts: Improving Music Source Separation by Bridging Network Authors: Ryosuke Sawata , Naoya Takahashi , Stefan Uhlich , Shusuke Takahashi , Yuki Mitsufuji View a PDF of the paper titled The Whole Is Greater than the Sum of Its Parts: Improving Music Source Separation by Bridging Network, by Ryosuke Sawata and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: This paper presents the crossing scheme (X-scheme) for improving the performance of deep neural network (DNN)-based music source separation (MSS) with almost no increasing calculation cost. It consists of three components: (i) multi-domain loss (MDL), (ii) bridging operation, which couples the individual instrument networks, and (iii) combination loss (CL). MDL enables the taking advantage of the frequency- and time-domain representations of audio signals. We modify the target network, i.e., the network architecture of the original DNN-based MSS, by adding bridging paths for each output instrument to share their information. MDL is then applied to the combinations of the output sources as well as each independent source; hence, we called it CL. MDL and CL can easily be applied to many DNN-based separation methods as they are merely loss functions that are only used during training and do not affect the inference step. Bridging operation does not increase the number of learnable parameters in the network. Experimental results showed that the validity of Open-Unmix (UMX), densely connected dilated DenseNet (D3Net) and convolutional time-domain audio separation network (Conv-TasNet) extended with our X-scheme, respectively called X-UMX, X-D3Net and X-Conv-TasNet, by comparing them with their original versions. We also verified the effectiveness of X-scheme in a large-scale data regime, showing its generality with respect to data size. X-UMX Large (X-UMXL), which was trained on large-scale internal data and used in our experiments, is newly available at this https URL . Comments: Acceptedt by EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing (under CC BY) Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) ; Sound (cs.SD) Cite as: arXiv:2305.07855 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2305.07855v2 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.07855 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing (JASM), 39 (2024) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1186/s13636-024-00354-6 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Ryosuke Sawata [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 13 May 2023 07:28:03 UTC (10,709 KB) [v2] Tue, 6 Aug 2024 01:19:47 UTC (3,402 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled The Whole Is Greater than the Sum of Its Parts: Improving Music Source Separation by Bridging Network, by Ryosuke Sawata and 3 other authors View PDF view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
