<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Opening Musical Creativity? Embedded Ideologies in Generative-AI Music Systems

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2508.08805v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:04.543995+00:00

## Notes

[2508.08805v1] Opening Musical Creativity? Embedded Ideologies in Generative-AI Music Systems Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2508.08805v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2508.08805v1 (cs) [Submitted on 12 Aug 2025] Title: Opening Musical Creativity? Embedded Ideologies in Generative-AI Music Systems Authors: Liam Pram , Fabio Morreale View a PDF of the paper titled Opening Musical Creativity? Embedded Ideologies in Generative-AI Music Systems, by Liam Pram and Fabio Morreale View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: AI systems for music generation are increasingly common and easy to use, granting people without any musical background the ability to create music. Because of this, generative-AI has been marketed and celebrated as a means of democratizing music making. However, inclusivity often functions as marketable rhetoric rather than a genuine guiding principle in these industry settings. In this paper, we look at four generative-AI music making systems available to the public as of mid-2025 (AIVA, Stable Audio, Suno, and Udio) and track how they are rhetoricized by their developers, and received by users. Our aim is to investigate ideologies that are driving the early-stage development and adoption of generative-AI in music making, with a particular focus on democratization. A combination of autoethnography and digital ethnography is used to examine patterns and incongruities in rhetoric when positioned against product functionality. The results are then collated to develop a nuanced, contextual discussion. The shared ideology we map between producers and consumers is individualist, globalist, techno-liberal, and ethically evasive. It is a 'total ideology' which obfuscates individual responsibility, and through which the nature of music and musical practice is transfigured to suit generative outcomes. Comments: Extended version of the presentation at The First International Conference in AI Music Studies 2024 Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC) Cite as: arXiv:2508.08805 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2508.08805v1 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2508.08805 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Fabio Morreale [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 12 Aug 2025 09:59:07 UTC (730 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Opening Musical Creativity? Embedded Ideologies in Generative-AI Music Systems, by Liam Pram and Fabio Morreale View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.HC References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
