<!-- source_type: articles -->
# PDMX: A Large-Scale Public Domain MusicXML Dataset for Symbolic Music Processing

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.10831v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:27.761332+00:00

## Notes

[2409.10831v2] PDMX: A Large-Scale Public Domain MusicXML Dataset for Symbolic Music Processing Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2409.10831v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2409.10831v2 (cs) [Submitted on 17 Sep 2024 ( v1 ), last revised 17 Mar 2025 (this version, v2)] Title: PDMX: A Large-Scale Public Domain MusicXML Dataset for Symbolic Music Processing Authors: Phillip Long , Zachary Novack , Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick , Julian McAuley View a PDF of the paper titled PDMX: A Large-Scale Public Domain MusicXML Dataset for Symbolic Music Processing, by Phillip Long and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The recent explosion of generative AI-Music systems has raised numerous concerns over data copyright, licensing music from musicians, and the conflict between open-source AI and large prestige companies. Such issues highlight the need for publicly available, copyright-free musical data, in which there is a large shortage, particularly for symbolic music data. To alleviate this issue, we present PDMX: a large-scale open-source dataset of over 250K public domain MusicXML scores collected from the score-sharing forum MuseScore, making it the largest available copyright-free symbolic music dataset to our knowledge. PDMX additionally includes a wealth of both tag and user interaction metadata, allowing us to efficiently analyze the dataset and filter for high quality user-generated scores. Given the additional metadata afforded by our data collection process, we conduct multitrack music generation experiments evaluating how different representative subsets of PDMX lead to different behaviors in downstream models, and how user-rating statistics can be used as an effective measure of data quality. Examples can be found at this https URL . Comments: Accepted to 2025 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2409.10831 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2409.10831v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.10831 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/ICASSP49660.2025.10890217 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Phillip Long [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 17 Sep 2024 01:48:42 UTC (174 KB) [v2] Mon, 17 Mar 2025 03:08:29 UTC (175 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled PDMX: A Large-Scale Public Domain MusicXML Dataset for Symbolic Music Processing, by Phillip Long and 3 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.LG cs.MM eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
