<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Expanding and Analyzing ODAQ -- the Open Dataset of Audio Quality

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.00742v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:57:54.437675+00:00

## Notes

[2504.00742v1] Expanding and Analyzing ODAQ -- the Open Dataset of Audio Quality Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:2504.00742v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Audio and Speech Processing arXiv:2504.00742v1 (eess) [Submitted on 1 Apr 2025] Title: Expanding and Analyzing ODAQ -- the Open Dataset of Audio Quality Authors: Sascha Dick , Christoph Thompson , Chih-Wei Wu , Matteo Torcoli , Pablo Delgado , Phillip A. Williams , Emanuel Habets View a PDF of the paper titled Expanding and Analyzing ODAQ -- the Open Dataset of Audio Quality, by Sascha Dick and 6 other authors View PDF Abstract: The Open Dataset of Audio Quality (ODAQ) was recently introduced to address the scarcity of openly available audio datasets with corresponding subjective quality scores. The dataset, released under permissive licenses, comprises audio material processed using six different signal processing methods operating at five quality levels, along with corresponding subjective test results. To expand the dataset, we provided listener training to university students to conduct further subjective tests and obtained results consistent with previous expert listeners. We also showed how different training approaches affect the use of absolute scales and anchors. The expanded dataset now comprises results from three international laboratories providing a total of 42 listeners and 10080 subjective scores. This paper provides the details of the expansion and an in-depth analysis. As part of this analysis, we initiate the use of ODAQ as a benchmark to evaluate objective audio quality metrics in their ability to predict subjective scores Comments: Accepted for presentation at the Audio Engineering Society (AES) 157th Convention, October 2024, New York, USA Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2504.00742 [eess.AS] (or arXiv:2504.00742v1 [eess.AS] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.00742 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Sascha Dick [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 1 Apr 2025 12:51:12 UTC (218 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Expanding and Analyzing ODAQ -- the Open Dataset of Audio Quality, by Sascha Dick and 6 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.AS < prev | next > new | recent | 2025-04 Change to browse by: eess References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
