<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Convolutional Neural Network Architectures for Signals Supported on Graphs

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.00165v2
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:09.276031+00:00

## Notes

[1805.00165v2] Convolutional Neural Network Architectures for Signals Supported on Graphs Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > eess > arXiv:1805.00165v2 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Electrical Engineering and Systems Science > Signal Processing arXiv:1805.00165v2 (eess) [Submitted on 1 May 2018 ( v1 ), last revised 7 Dec 2018 (this version, v2)] Title: Convolutional Neural Network Architectures for Signals Supported on Graphs Authors: Fernando Gama , Antonio G. Marques , Geert Leus , Alejandro Ribeiro View a PDF of the paper titled Convolutional Neural Network Architectures for Signals Supported on Graphs, by Fernando Gama and Antonio G. Marques and Geert Leus and Alejandro Ribeiro View PDF Abstract: Two architectures that generalize convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for the processing of signals supported on graphs are introduced. We start with the selection graph neural network (GNN), which replaces linear time invariant filters with linear shift invariant graph filters to generate convolutional features and reinterprets pooling as a possibly nonlinear subsampling stage where nearby nodes pool their information in a set of preselected sample nodes. A key component of the architecture is to remember the position of sampled nodes to permit computation of convolutional features at deeper layers. The second architecture, dubbed aggregation GNN, diffuses the signal through the graph and stores the sequence of diffused components observed by a designated node. This procedure effectively aggregates all components into a stream of information having temporal structure to which the convolution and pooling stages of regular CNNs can be applied. A multinode version of aggregation GNNs is further introduced for operation in large scale graphs. An important property of selection and aggregation GNNs is that they reduce to conventional CNNs when particularized to time signals reinterpreted as graph signals in a circulant graph. Comparative numerical analyses are performed in a source localization application over synthetic and real-world networks. Performance is also evaluated for an authorship attribution problem and text category classification. Multinode aggregation GNNs are consistently the best performing GNN architecture. Comments: Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:1805.00165 [eess.SP] (or arXiv:1805.00165v2 [eess.SP] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1805.00165 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2018.2887403 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Fernando Gama [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 1 May 2018 03:04:31 UTC (1,324 KB) [v2] Fri, 7 Dec 2018 01:17:25 UTC (981 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Convolutional Neural Network Architectures for Signals Supported on Graphs, by Fernando Gama and Antonio G. Marques and Geert Leus and Alejandro Ribeiro View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: eess.SP < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-05 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.LG eess stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
