<!-- source_type: articles -->
# The Song Describer Dataset: a Corpus of Audio Captions for Music-and-Language Evaluation

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10057v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:59:01.220401+00:00

## Notes

[2311.10057v3] The Song Describer Dataset: a Corpus of Audio Captions for Music-and-Language Evaluation Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2311.10057v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:2311.10057v3 (cs) [Submitted on 16 Nov 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 22 Nov 2023 (this version, v3)] Title: The Song Describer Dataset: a Corpus of Audio Captions for Music-and-Language Evaluation Authors: Ilaria Manco , Benno Weck , SeungHeon Doh , Minz Won , Yixiao Zhang , Dmitry Bogdanov , Yusong Wu , Ke Chen , Philip Tovstogan , Emmanouil Benetos , Elio Quinton , György Fazekas , Juhan Nam View a PDF of the paper titled The Song Describer Dataset: a Corpus of Audio Captions for Music-and-Language Evaluation, by Ilaria Manco and 12 other authors View PDF Abstract: We introduce the Song Describer dataset (SDD), a new crowdsourced corpus of high-quality audio-caption pairs, designed for the evaluation of music-and-language models. The dataset consists of 1.1k human-written natural language descriptions of 706 music recordings, all publicly accessible and released under Creative Common licenses. To showcase the use of our dataset, we benchmark popular models on three key music-and-language tasks (music captioning, text-to-music generation and music-language retrieval). Our experiments highlight the importance of cross-dataset evaluation and offer insights into how researchers can use SDD to gain a broader understanding of model performance. Comments: Accepted to NeurIPS 2023 Workshop on Machine Learning for Audio Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS) Cite as: arXiv:2311.10057 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:2311.10057v3 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2311.10057 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Benno Weck [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 17:52:21 UTC (240 KB) [v2] Sat, 18 Nov 2023 14:14:40 UTC (240 KB) [v3] Wed, 22 Nov 2023 21:22:11 UTC (550 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled The Song Describer Dataset: a Corpus of Audio Captions for Music-and-Language Evaluation, by Ilaria Manco and 12 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2023-11 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.CL eess eess.AS References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
