<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Music Transformer

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04281v3
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:11:42.746295+00:00

## Notes

[1809.04281v3] Music Transformer Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1809.04281v3 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:1809.04281v3 (cs) [Submitted on 12 Sep 2018 ( v1 ), last revised 12 Dec 2018 (this version, v3)] Title: Music Transformer Authors: Cheng-Zhi Anna Huang , Ashish Vaswani , Jakob Uszkoreit , Noam Shazeer , Ian Simon , Curtis Hawthorne , Andrew M. Dai , Matthew D. Hoffman , Monica Dinculescu , Douglas Eck View a PDF of the paper titled Music Transformer, by Cheng-Zhi Anna Huang and 9 other authors View PDF Abstract: Music relies heavily on repetition to build structure and meaning. Self-reference occurs on multiple timescales, from motifs to phrases to reusing of entire sections of music, such as in pieces with ABA structure. The Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017), a sequence model based on self-attention, has achieved compelling results in many generation tasks that require maintaining long-range coherence. This suggests that self-attention might also be well-suited to modeling music. In musical composition and performance, however, relative timing is critically important. Existing approaches for representing relative positional information in the Transformer modulate attention based on pairwise distance (Shaw et al., 2018). This is impractical for long sequences such as musical compositions since their memory complexity for intermediate relative information is quadratic in the sequence length. We propose an algorithm that reduces their intermediate memory requirement to linear in the sequence length. This enables us to demonstrate that a Transformer with our modified relative attention mechanism can generate minute-long compositions (thousands of steps, four times the length modeled in Oore et al., 2018) with compelling structure, generate continuations that coherently elaborate on a given motif, and in a seq2seq setup generate accompaniments conditioned on melodies. We evaluate the Transformer with our relative attention mechanism on two datasets, JSB Chorales and Piano-e-Competition, and obtain state-of-the-art results on the latter. Comments: Improved skewing section and accompanying figures. Previous titles are "An Improved Relative Self-Attention Mechanism for Transformer with Application to Music Generation" and "Music Transformer" Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:1809.04281 [cs.LG] (or arXiv:1809.04281v3 [cs.LG] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1809.04281 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Cheng-Zhi Anna Huang [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 12 Sep 2018 07:15:26 UTC (257 KB) [v2] Wed, 10 Oct 2018 20:23:04 UTC (477 KB) [v3] Wed, 12 Dec 2018 07:42:08 UTC (965 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Music Transformer, by Cheng-Zhi Anna Huang and 9 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.LG < prev | next > new | recent | 2018-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.SD eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Cheng-Zhi Anna Huang Ashish Vaswani Jakob Uszkoreit Noam Shazeer Curtis Hawthorne … export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
