<!-- source_type: articles -->
# Introduction to the Special Issue on Digital Signal Processing in Radio Astronomy

- source_type: articles
- source: arxiv
- url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00442v1
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:09:36.485244+00:00

## Notes

[1702.00442v1] Introduction to the Special Issue on Digital Signal Processing in Radio Astronomy Skip to main content Learn about arXiv becoming an independent nonprofit. We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > astro-ph > arXiv:1702.00442v1 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search GO quick links Login Help Pages About Astrophysics > Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics arXiv:1702.00442v1 (astro-ph) [Submitted on 1 Feb 2017] Title: Introduction to the Special Issue on Digital Signal Processing in Radio Astronomy Authors: Danny C. Price , Jonathon Kocz , Matthew Bailes , Lincoln J. Greenhill View a PDF of the paper titled Introduction to the Special Issue on Digital Signal Processing in Radio Astronomy, by Danny C. Price and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Advances in astronomy are intimately linked to advances in digital signal processing (DSP). This special issue is focused upon advances in DSP within radio astronomy. The trend within that community is to use off-the-shelf digital hardware where possible and leverage advances in high performance computing. In particular, graphics processing units (GPUs) and field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) are being used in place of application-specific circuits (ASICs); high-speed Ethernet and Infiniband are being used for interconnect in place of custom backplanes. Further, to lower hurdles in digital engineering, communities have designed and released general-purpose FPGA-based DSP systems, such as the CASPER ROACH board, ASTRON Uniboard and CSIRO Redback board. In this introductory article, we give a brief historical overview, a summary of recent trends, and provide an outlook on future directions. Comments: Introduction to the Journal of Astronomical Instrumentation (JAI) special issue on Digital Signal Processing in Radio Astronomy, this http URL Subjects: Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM) Cite as: arXiv:1702.00442 [astro-ph.IM] (or arXiv:1702.00442v1 [astro-ph.IM] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1702.00442 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Journal reference: J. Astron. Instrum. 05, 1602002 (2016) Related DOI : https://doi.org/10.1142/S2251171716020025 Focus to learn more DOI(s) linking to related resources Submission history From: Danny Price [ view email ] [v1] Wed, 1 Feb 2017 20:28:58 UTC (134 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Introduction to the Special Issue on Digital Signal Processing in Radio Astronomy, by Danny C. Price and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source view license Current browse context: astro-ph.IM < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-02 Change to browse by: astro-ph References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status
