<!-- source_type: books -->
# American Film

- source_type: books
- source: openlibrary
- url: https://openlibrary.org/works/OL17597290W
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T23:07:46.025557+00:00

## Notes

American Film, Volume VIII, Number 2 by American Film Institute | Open Library It looks like you're offline. Donate ♥ English (en) العربية (ar) Čeština (cs) Deutsch (de) English (en) Español (es) Français (fr) हिंदी (hi) Hrvatski (hr) Italiano (it) Português (pt) Română (ro) Sardu (sc) తెలుగు (te) Українська (uk) 中文 (zh) Page Status My Books Browse Menu Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search All All Title Author Text Subject Lists Advanced Log In Sign Up My Open Library Log In Sign Up Browse Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search Contribute Add a Book Recent Community Edits Resources Help & Support Developer Center Librarians Portal My Books Browse Menu Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search Overview View 83 Editions Details Reviews Lists Related Books An edition of American Film (1975) American Film, Volume VIII, Number 2 November 1982 by American Film Institute ★ ★ ★ ★ 4.0 (1 rating) 32 Want to read 2 Currently reading Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code American Film, Volume VIII, Number 2 American Film Institute American Film, Volume VIII, Number 2 × Close Read Listen Locate ✓ Add to List Remove From Shelf Want to Read Currently Reading Already Read My Reading Lists: Use this Work Create a new list Create a new list × Close Name: Description: Create new list Cancel 1 2 3 4 5 Clear my rating Review Notes My Book Notes × Close My private notes about this edition: Delete Note Save Note Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code ★ ★ ★ ★ 4.0 (1 rating) 32 Want to read 2 Currently reading Review 1 2 3 4 5 Clear my rating Notes My Book Notes × Close My private notes about this edition: Delete Note Save Note Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code Download Options PDF Plain text DAISY Check nearby libraries WorldCat Buy this book Fetching prices Overview View 83 Editions Details Reviews Lists Related Books Last edited by Lisa September 10, 2018 | History Edit An edition of American Film (1975) American Film, Volume VIII, Number 2 November 1982 by American Film Institute ★ ★ ★ ★ 4.0 (1 rating) 32 Want to read 2 Currently reading American Film, Volume VIII, Number 2 Edit $2.00 cover price. Cover illustration of Jackie Gleason, as he appears in "The Sting II" by Stephen Durke. Publish Date November 1982 Publisher American Film Institute Language English Pages 96 Check nearby libraries WorldCat Buy this book Fetching prices Previews available in: English Subjects Films , Movies , Motion Pictures , History , Journal , Periodicals , Movie Magazines , Magazines Showing 10 featured editions. View all 83 editions? Edition Availability 01 American Film, Volume VIII, Number 2: November 1982 November 1982, American Film Institute Magazine in English aaaa Read Listen Locate 02 American Film, Volume VII, Number 9: July-August 1982 July 1982, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 03 American Film, Volume VI, Number 3: December 1980 December 1980, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 04 American Film, Volume II, Number 3: December 1976-January 1977 December 1976, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 05 American Film, Volume 1, Number 5: March 1976 March 1976, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 06 American Film, Volume II, Number 1: October 1976 October 1976, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 07 American Film, Volume 1, Number 4: February 1976 February 1976, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 08 American Film, Volume 1, Number 9: July-August 1976 July 1976, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 09 American Film, Volume 1, Number 7: May 1976 May 1976, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 10 American Film, Volume 1, Number 3: December 1975 December 1975, American Film Institute Magazine in English bbbb Read Listen Locate Add another edition? Book Details Table of Contents The Editing Room. Page 6 Letters. Page 8 Newsreel. Short news stories Page 10 Everybody's Gone Filming. Beach films are back. CINE at Twenty-Five. The Council on Nontheatrical Events Dear Filmgoer. Direct-mail movie marketing Free on a Match. Product placement and placement products Rating Ratings. PG-13 in the works Dialogue on Film: Dyan Cannon. Coming off good notices for "Deathtrap" and "Author! Author!," the actress pauses to discuss her work as a director. Page 18 VideoFile. Video Boom Busts Retailers. Cassettes are selling like hotcakes, but while studios waffle, video stores look for milk and honey. Page 25 Studios Demand Rent Control. Studios attempt to market tapes for rental only. Page 27 Scanlines. Page 33 Videography. Page 35 How Sweet It Was. In the golden age of television, no one had the Midas touch like Jackie Gleason. Now he's working harder than ever in the movies, but the thrill is gone. Page 38 Prairie Film Companion. You can't see Hollywood from Minnesota, but local filmmakers don't care. They're less concerned with making deals than making films about their own state. Page 46 History of the (Film) World, Part II. For decades, film historians have told us the same old story. Now, the next generation of scholars, asking different questions and using different methods, is writing its own version. Page 52 Letter from Paris: Mitterrand's Medialand. Has the election of a Socialist president brought a cultural revolution to French television? Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose. Page 58 Marty. Martin Scorsese is hard at work on his new film, "The King of Comedy," starring Robert De Niro and Jerry Lewis. Page 66 Paul Zimmerman: "Screenwriting Is Like the Priesthood". Page 72 Books. "Hitler," a Script from Germany Page 76 Trailers. Brief looks at "Still of the Night," "First Blood," "Brimstone and Treacle," "Night of the Shooting Stars," "Veronika Voss," & "National Lampoon's Class Reunion." Page 93 November Calendar for AFI Members. Page 94 From the Director. What Price Quality? Page 96 Notable Advertisements. HBO. Celebrating a Decade of Innovation (Milton Berle photo) Page 7 RCA. Videodiscs, assorted Page 9 Audi. Page 10-11 Fuji. Super High Grade Videotapes Page 19 Sanyo. VCR 4000 Video Recorder Page 21 Thorn EMI Video. Cannes Film Festival Contest Page 22-23 Sony. Dynamicron videotapes Page 24 Kodak. Eastman film Page 29 MCA Video. Winter 1982 (The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, The Thing, Conan the Barbarian, Sword and Sorcerer, Jazzercize, Jacki Sorensen's Aerobic Workout, Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein, Duck Soup, Dracula, My Little Chickadee, Going My Way, Holiday Inn) Page 30-31 Walt Disney Home Video. A Walt Disney Christmas Page 32 Maxell. HGX Videotape Page 50-51 CBS Fox Video. Star Wars Page 74-75 Columbia Pictures Home Entertainment. Santa's helpers. (Taxi Driver, The Who's Tommy, Cheech & Chong's Nice Dreams, Hanky Panky, Neighbors, Stir Crazy, Kramer vs. Kramer, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Absence of Malice, Fail Safe, Only When I Laugh, The Three Stooges, Stropes, QBVII) - inner back cover Edition Notes Published in New York, USA Series Magazine of the Film and Television Arts Copyright Date 1982 Contributors Editor Peter Biskind Writer John Kehoe Writer Amanda Spake Writer Douglass K. Daniel interviewee Dyan Cannon Writer Howard Polskin Writer Seth Goldstein Writer Toby Thompson Writer Phil Anderson Writer Douglas Gomery Writer Marcel Ophuls Writer Carrie Rickey interviewee Paul Zimmerman Writer J. Hoberman Writer Jean Firstenberg Senior Editor Antonio Chemasi Senior Editor Jean Callahan Senior Editor Thomas Wiener Associate Editor Peter Craig Art Director Victoria Valentine Publisher Tod Herbers The Physical Object Format Magazine Number of pages 96 Edition Identifiers Open Library OL26207035M OCLC/WorldCat 2246336 Amazon ID (ASIN) B003NTMTLS Work Identifiers Work ID OL17597290W Work Description "American Film" is a magazine published by The American Film Institute from 1975-1992. 10 issues were published yearly, with 166 issues in total. Originally subtitled "The Journal of the Film and Television Arts" the highbrow magazine initially focused on film classics but the focus soon shifted to contemporary movies. Countless people associated with the film industry contributed articles and columns, including Francois Truffaut, Ernest Lehman, Leonard Maltin, Roger Ebert, Roger Greenspun, Larry McMurty, and others. In addition to the information about movies and television, the journal offers an insightful view on the home video industry, chronicling the introductions of VHS, Beta, Videodisc and laserdisc and continuing through the VHS boom in the early '90s when the magazine folded. In October 1979, they introduced "The Video Scene," a multi-column section centered on home video, punctuated with ads and printed on a different paper stock. Ads for videotapes began to surface quickly during the run of the magazine and then exploded, with the first major ad being for The Video Club of America's release of "The Sound of Music" in the May 1979 issue. AFI struggled in the publishing market so the magazine went through a vast array of changes over the years. Early issues were black-and-white, ad-free, with a 16-page card-stock centerfold for their "Dialogue on Film" column, which featured transcripts of Q&A discussions with film legends. Beginning with the April 1978 issue, the publishers switched to a cheaper paper stock. By 1978, they began to become overrun with advertisements and in December, they added color spreads, predominantly for noteworthy new films - though by the early 1980s they were publishing full-color issues. In 1988, the magazine was sold to BPI Communications, and the following year the entire format was changed to glossy, oversized issues. In 1992, the magazine abruptly ceased publication. In April 2012, the magazine was revived as a monthly digital e-zine, which ran until October 2014, with a total of 31 issues. Community Reviews (0) No community reviews have been submitted for this work. + Log in to add your community review Lists Loading Lists Loading carousel Failed to fetch carousel. Retry? Loading carousel Failed to fetch carousel. Retry? Download catalog record: RDF / JSON Open Library Vision Volunteer Partner With Us Careers Blog Terms of Service Donate Discover Home Books Authors Subjects Collections Advanced Search Return to Top Develop Developer Center API Documentation Bulk Data Dumps Writing Bots Help Help Center Contact Us Suggesting Edits Add a Book Release Notes Change Website Language العربية (ar) Čeština (cs) Deutsch (de) English (en) Español (es) Français (fr) हिंदी (hi) Hrvatski (hr) Italiano (it) Português (pt) Română (ro) Sardu (sc) తెలుగు (te) Українська (uk) 中文 (zh) Open Library is an initiative of the Internet Archive , a 501(c)(3) non-profit, building a digital library of Internet sites and other cultural artifacts in digital form. Other projects include the Wayback Machine , archive.org and archive-it.org version 3ecd50c
