<!-- source_type: books -->
# The Pope and the people

- source_type: books
- source: openlibrary
- url: https://openlibrary.org/works/OL566796W
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:56:08.373242+00:00

## Notes

The Pope and the people by Pope Leo XIII | Open Library It looks like you're offline. Donate ♥ English (en) العربية (ar) Čeština (cs) Deutsch (de) English (en) Español (es) Français (fr) हिंदी (hi) Hrvatski (hr) Italiano (it) Português (pt) Română (ro) Sardu (sc) తెలుగు (te) Українська (uk) 中文 (zh) Page Status My Books Browse Menu Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search All All Title Author Text Subject Lists Advanced Log In Sign Up My Open Library Log In Sign Up Browse Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search Contribute Add a Book Recent Community Edits Resources Help & Support Developer Center Librarians Portal My Books Browse Menu Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search Overview View 14 Editions Details Reviews Lists Related Books An edition of The Pope and the people (1895) The Pope and the people select letters and addresses on social questions by Pope Leo XIII and Catholic Church. Pope. 1 Want to read Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code The Pope and the people Pope Leo XIII, Catholic Church ... The Pope and the people × Close Read Listen Locate ✓ Add to List Remove From Shelf Want to Read Currently Reading Already Read My Reading Lists: Use this Work Create a new list Create a new list × Close Name: Description: Create new list Cancel 1 2 3 4 5 Clear my rating Review Notes My Book Notes × Close My private notes about this edition: Delete Note Save Note Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code 1 Want to read Review 1 2 3 4 5 Clear my rating Notes My Book Notes × Close My private notes about this edition: Delete Note Save Note Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code Download Options PDF Plain text ePub DAISY Check nearby libraries WorldCat Buy this book Fetching prices Overview View 14 Editions Details Reviews Lists Related Books Last edited by Tom Morris May 9, 2025 | History Edit An edition of The Pope and the people (1895) The Pope and the people select letters and addresses on social questions by Pope Leo XIII and Catholic Church. Pope. 1 Want to read The Pope and the people Edit This work doesn't have a description yet. Can you add one ? Publish Date 1895 Publisher Art and book company , Benziger brothers Language English Pages 266 Check nearby libraries WorldCat Buy this book Fetching prices Previews available in: English Subjects Christian sociology , Catholic authors , Catholic Church , World War, 1914-1918 , Papal Letters , Church and labor , Church and state , Marriage , Catholic Church. Pope, 1903-1914 (Pius X) , Catholic Church. Pope (1922-1939 : Pius XI) , Sociology,Christian , Catholic Church. Pope (1878-1903 : Leo XIII) , Catholic Church. Pope, 1914-1922 (Benedictus XV) , Papal Encyclicals , Labor , Christianity , War work , Churches , Catholic Church. Pope (1903-1914 : Pius X) , Catholic Church. Pope (1914-1922 : Benedict XV) Showing 5 featured editions. View all 14 editions? Edition Availability 1 The Pope and the People: Select Letters and Addresses on Social Questions 1937-01-01, Catholic Truth in English cccc Borrow Listen Locate 2 THE POPE AND THE PEOPLE 1932-01-01, CATHOLIC TRUTH SOCIETY in English cccc Borrow Listen Locate 3 The Pope and the people: select letters and addresses on social questions 1903, Catholic Truth Society in English - New and enl. ed. / with pref. by C.S. Devas. bbbb Read Listen Locate 4 The Pope and the people: select letters and addresses on social questions 1895, Art and book company, Benziger brothers in English aaaa Read Listen Locate 5 The pope and the people: select letters and addresses on social questions 1895, London and Leamington, Art and Book Co., New York : Benziger Bros. in English bbbb Read Listen Locate Add another edition? Book Details Table of Contents The condition of the working classes. (Encyclical letter, May 15, 1891). On the evils affecting modern society, their causes and remedies. (Encyclical letter, April 21,1878). The Christian constitution of states. (Encyclical letter, November 1, 1885). On the chief duties of Christians as citizens. (Encyclical letter, January 10, 1890). Human liberty. (Encyclical letter, June 20, 1888). Christian marriage. (Encyclical letter, February 10, 1880). The right ordering of Christian life. (Encyclical letter, December 30, 1888). Concerning modern errors, socialism, communism, nihilism. (Encyclical letter, December 28, 1878). Working men's clubs and associations. (An address to the officials and members of the societies for the furtherance of Catholic interests amongst the industrial classe in France, February 24, 1885). The reunion of Christendom. (Encyclical letter, June 20, 1894). Edition Notes Published in London and Leamington, New York [etc.] Classifications Dewey Decimal Class 261 Library of Congress HN37.C3 A3 1895 The Physical Object Pagination x p., 1 ¹., 266 p. Number of pages 266 Edition Identifiers Open Library OL24172353M Internet Archive cu31924012755975 LCCN 37037490 OCLC/WorldCat 17510883 , 19816477 Work Identifiers Work ID OL566796W Source records Internet Archive item record marc_columbia MARC record Community Reviews (0) No community reviews have been submitted for this work. + Log in to add your community review Lists Loading Lists Loading carousel Failed to fetch carousel. Retry? Loading carousel Failed to fetch carousel. Retry? Download catalog record: RDF / JSON Open Library Vision Volunteer Partner With Us Careers Blog Terms of Service Donate Discover Home Books Authors Subjects Collections Advanced Search Return to Top Develop Developer Center API Documentation Bulk Data Dumps Writing Bots Help Help Center Contact Us Suggesting Edits Add a Book Release Notes Change Website Language العربية (ar) Čeština (cs) Deutsch (de) English (en) Español (es) Français (fr) हिंदी (hi) Hrvatski (hr) Italiano (it) Português (pt) Română (ro) Sardu (sc) తెలుగు (te) Українська (uk) 中文 (zh) Open Library is an initiative of the Internet Archive , a 501(c)(3) non-profit, building a digital library of Internet sites and other cultural artifacts in digital form. Other projects include the Wayback Machine , archive.org and archive-it.org version 3ecd50c
