<!-- source_type: books -->
# The origin of ideas

- source_type: books
- source: openlibrary
- url: https://openlibrary.org/works/OL15311250W
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:56:16.983320+00:00

## Notes

The Origin Of Ideas by Antonio Rosmini | Open Library It looks like you're offline. Donate ♥ English (en) العربية (ar) Čeština (cs) Deutsch (de) English (en) Español (es) Français (fr) हिंदी (hi) Hrvatski (hr) Italiano (it) Português (pt) Română (ro) Sardu (sc) తెలుగు (te) Українська (uk) 中文 (zh) Page Status My Books Browse Menu Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search All All Title Author Text Subject Lists Advanced Log In Sign Up My Open Library Log In Sign Up Browse Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search Contribute Add a Book Recent Community Edits Resources Help & Support Developer Center Librarians Portal My Books Browse Menu Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search Overview View 7 Editions Details Reviews Lists Related Books An edition of The origin of ideas (1883) The Origin Of Ideas Volume 1 by Antonio Rosmini 1 Have read Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code The Origin Of Ideas Antonio Rosmini The Origin Of Ideas × Close Read Listen Locate ✓ Add to List Remove From Shelf Want to Read Currently Reading Already Read My Reading Lists: Use this Work Create a new list Create a new list × Close Name: Description: Create new list Cancel 1 2 3 4 5 Clear my rating Review Notes My Book Notes × Close My private notes about this edition: Delete Note Save Note Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code 1 Have read Review 1 2 3 4 5 Clear my rating Notes My Book Notes × Close My private notes about this edition: Delete Note Save Note Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code Download Options PDF Plain text ePub DAISY Check nearby libraries WorldCat Buy this book Fetching prices Overview View 7 Editions Details Reviews Lists Related Books Last edited by MARC Bot July 13, 2024 | History Edit An edition of The origin of ideas (1883) The Origin Of Ideas Volume 1 by Antonio Rosmini 1 Have read The Origin Of Ideas Edit Volume 1 of 3. Publish Date 1883 Publisher Kegan, Paul, Trench & Co. Language English Check nearby libraries WorldCat Buy this book Fetching prices Previews available in: English Subjects Theory of Knowledge Edition Availability 1 The origin of ideas. 1886, [s.n.] in English zzzz Locate 2 The origin of ideas. 1886, [s.n.] in English zzzz Locate 3 The origin of ideas. 1886, Kegan Paul, Trench - New and cheaper ed. -- bbbb Read Listen Locate 4 The origin of ideas. 1886, [s.n.] in English zzzz Locate 5 The Origin Of Ideas: Volume 3 1884, Kegan, Paul, Trench & Co. in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 6 The Origin Of Ideas: Volume 1 1883, Kegan, Paul, Trench & Co. in English aaaa Read Listen Locate 7 The Origin Of Ideas: Volume 2 1883, Kegan, Paul, Trench & Co. in English bbbb Read Listen Locate Add another edition? Book Details Table of Contents CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME. PREFACE vii SECTION I. PRINCIPLES TO BE FOLLOWED IN THESE INQUIRIES. CHAPTER I. On the Two Principles of Philosophic Method i CHAPTER II. Two Philosophies: the one Vulgar, and the other Scientific ; their two Defects 3 CHAPTER III. On the Defect of the Philosophy of Locke 7 SECTION II. ON THE NATURE OF THE DIFFICULTY TO BE OVERCOME IN EXPLAINING THE ORIGIN OF IDEAS: — THE DIFFICULTY STATED. SECTION III. THEORIES WHICH ERR BY DEFECT — THAT IS, BY NOT ASSIGNING TO IDEAS AN ADEQUATE CAUSE. CHAPTER I. LOCKE. I. The System of Locke 18 II. Locke, when coming to account for the Origin of the Idea of Substance, stumbles upon the Difficulty, but does not perceive it 18 III. Without the Idea of Substance the Development of our Intellectual Life would be impossible 20 IV. Why the Idea of Substance cannot come from Sensations alone 21 V. The Difficulty found in explaining the Origin of the Idea of Substance is the same as that which I have stated in another form 24 VI. Conclusion on the Imperfection of the System of Locke 32 CHAPTER II. CONDILLAC I. Objections raised by D’Alembert against the System of Locke 35 II. Locke censured by Condillac 38 III. The System of Condillac 39 IV. Defectiveness of Condillac’s Analysis 41 V. Intellectual Attention is not the same thing as Sensitivity 41 VI. Memory is not Sensitivity 44 VII. Attention is different from Memory 46 VIII. Judgment must not be confounded with simple Attention 47 IX. Condillac stumbles upon the Difficulty without perceiving it : that is, he accounts for the Formation of Ideas by unconsciously Begging the Question 49 X. In every representative Apprehension we contemplate a Universal : hence the Difficulty is seen still more clearly in the Theory of Condillac, and remains in it unsolved 53 XI. Continuation 60 XII. Conclusion on the Intrinsic Defect of the System of Condillac 63 CHAPTER III. REID. I. Origin of the Scottish School 65 II. System of Reid on the Distinction of the Human Faculties 68 III. The Difficulty as seen by Dr. Reid 73 IV. The Difficulty found by Dr. Reid in the System of Locke had in some way been perceived by Locke himself 75 V. Objection urged by Reid against Locke 77 VI. Reid places Judgment before Ideas 78 VII. Dr. Reid maintains, against Locke, that the First Operation of the Human Mind is, not Analytic, but Synthetic 79 VIII. The System proposed by Dr. Reid cannot be considered satisfactory 79 IX. Defect common to Reid and his Adversaries 83 X. The part in which the System of Reid holds good as against that of his Adversaries 91 XI. Conclusion 94 CHAPTER IV. DUGALD STEWART I. Various Aspects of the Difficulty 96 II. Dugald Stewart grounds his Theory on a Passage of Adam Smith 98 III. Defects in the above Passage. — First Defect : It does not distinguish the several Species of Names indicating Multitudes of Individuals 100 IV. Second Defect : Smith does not distinguish the Names indicating Multitudes of Individuals from those which indicate Abstract Qualities 102 V. Third Defect : Smith confounds with Common Nouns the Names indicating Multitudes of Individuals and those indicating Abstract Qualities 103 VI. Fourth Defect : Smith does not understand the true Distinction between Common and Proper Nouns 105 VII. Fifth Defect : Smith does not understand the Reason why Common Nouns and Proper Nouns are severally so called 106 VIII. Sixth Defect: Smith does not see that the first Names given to things were Common Nouns 108 IX. Seventh Defect : Smith does not see that to know in things that which is ‘common' is easier than to know that which is ‘proper' 114 X. Eighth Defect : Smith does not know in what way Common Nouns pass into being used as Proper 115 XI. Ninth Defect : Smith, while professing to explain Abstract Ideas, gives no such Explanation at all 121 XII. Tenth Defect : The language of Smith throws a veil over the true Point of the Difficulty to be overcome in explaining the Origin of Abstract Ideas 123 XIII. What Form the Ideological Problem takes in the Reasonings of Smith and Dugald Stewart 130 XIV. The System of the Nominalists does not solve the Ideological Problem 130 XV. How Dugald Stewart’s Error originated 131 XVI. The Theory of Dugald Stewart sins by a petitio principii 132 XVII. Another Error of Dugald Stewart 136 XVIII. Other Errors of Dugald Stewart : the Inadequacy of his Theory to solve the Ideological Problem is further demonstrated 138 XIX. The Nominalism of Dugald Stewart flows from the Principles of Reid 148 XX. In explaining how our Mind conceives the Similarity of Objects, the same Difficulty is met with under another aspect 151 XXI. In explaining how Individuals can be Classified, the same Difficulty presents itself again 151 XXII. Uncertainty observable in the Expressions used by Dugald Stewart 158 XXIII. Dugald Stewart confounds together two Questions which are totally distinct 159 XXIV. Dugald Stewart does not understand the Doctrines of the ancient Philosophers whom he censures, concerning the Formation of Genera and Species 160 XXV. Dugald Stewart does not understand the Question debated between the Realists, the Conceptualists, and the Nominalists 162 XXVI. Dugald Stewart confounds the Question of the Necessity of Language with that of the Existence of Universal 164 XXVII. Another petitio principii : Dugald Stewart, while professing to explain how the Mind forms the Ideas of Genera and Species, begins by presupposing these ideas as already formed 166 XXVIII. Another petitio principii : Dugald Stewart assumes that General Ideas are something, in the very discussion in which he attempts to prove that they are mere Names 167 XXIX. The Use of Signs does not suffice to account for our Knowledge of Universals 169 XXX. Another Fallacy in the Mode of Reasoning adopted by Dugald Stewart 172 XXXI. Conclusion : The Scottish School, conscious of its inability to overcome the difficulty in question, has tried in vain to eliminate it from Philosophy 176 CHAPTER V. What Steps has Philosophy made by means of the Systems we have examined thus far? 177 SECTION IV. THEORIES WHICH ERR BY EXCESS — THAT IS, BY ASSIGNING TO IDEAS A GREATER CAUSE THAN IS NECESSARY. CHAPTER I. PLATO AND ARISTOTLE. I. The Difficulty of the Problem of the Origin of Ideas as proposed by Plato 188 II. Plato’s Solution of the Difficulty 190 III. The Difficulty seen by Plato is in substance the same as that which has been proposed in these pages 192 IV. The System of Plato solves the Difficulty, but is at the same time Vitiated by Excess 196 V. Aristotle points out the Inaccuracy of Plato’s Reasoning 201 VI. Its Defect notwithstanding, the Reasoning of Plato contains an Element of solid Truth 203 VII. Aristotle does not seem to give an adequate Explanation of Universals 204 VIII. From some passages in the Works of Aristotle it would seem that he did not sufficiently mark the Distinction between Sense and Understanding 207 IX. According to Themistius’s Paraphrase, Aristotle did not properly understand the Nature of the Universal 213 X. To Judge is more than to Apprehend the Universal 215 XI. Absurdity of the Doctrine expounded by Themistius 216 XII. Contradiction between two Opinions of Aristotle 220 XIII. The Difficulty pointed out in this Discussion was perceived by the Schoolmen, as is proved from a Distinction which they invented in order to meet it. That Distinction is examined 222 XIV. The intellects agens of Aristotle does not account for the Origin of Universals 226 XV. According to Aristotle, the Understanding communicates its own Form to the things perceived by it. This, taken in conjunction with the Denial of all Innate Ideas, is the Foundation of Modern Scepticism 230 XVI. An Aristotelian self-contradiction 232 XVII. According to the System just expounded, the Understanding would operate blindly : Absurdity of this 233 XVIII. Aristotle catches a glimpse of the True Doctrine 234 XIX. The Hint of the True Doctrine given by Aristotle is explained 236 XX. Aristotle acknowledges that the Human Understanding carries with it by Nature a Light, as attested by Mankind generally 237 XXI. The Arabians, by denying the Existence of a Light Innate in Man, fell into the erroneous Doctrine that the intellectus agens was outside of the Human Soul 240 XXII. St. Thomas refutes the Error of the Arabians 242 XXIII. Credit due to Aristotle for having seen the Necessity of an Innate Primitive Act in the Human Understanding 243 XXIV. According to the Interpretation of Egidius, the Indeterminate Habits hinted at by Aristotle are Innate in the Human Soul 248 XXV. Conclusion on Aristotle 248 XXVI. Two Kinds of Doctrine in Plato 249 CHAPTER II. LEIBNITZ I. The Difficulty to be overcome in accounting for the Origin of Ideas was seen by Leibnitz 259 II. Leibnitz was led to perceive the Difficulty by the Analysis, not of the Intellectual Faculty in Particular, but of Powers in General 262 III. Leibnitz saw the Difficulty imperfectly because he deduced it from Principles which were too General 263 IV. Leibnitzian Solution of the Difficulty 266 V. How Innate Ideas as understood by Leibnitz are made successively to pass from a Confused to a Luminous State 269 VI. Merit of Leibnitz in this Question 270 VII. Leibnitz admits less of the Innate than Plato 277 VIII. To explain the Existence of Human Ideas, Leibnitz assumes more of the Innate than is necessary 278 IX. Other errors of the Leibnitzian Theory 279 X. Conclusion as to the Theory of Leibnitz 284 CHAPTER III. KANT I. Kant, without any Examination, takes for granted the Principle of Locke, that 'all Human Knowledge comes from Experience' 286 II. In his Opposition to Locke, Kant imitated Leibnitz 288 III. Two Species of Knowledge, the one a priori and the other a posteriori, admitted by all Philosophical Schools 289 IV. The Characteristics of a priori and of a posteriori Knowledge 292 V. Hume, by discarding a portion of a priori Knowledge, induces Scepticism 297 VI. No Portion of a priori Knowledge can be explained by Means of the Senses 301 VII. How it was Attempted to Confute the Scepticism of Hume 305 VIII. A more effectual Way of Confuting the Scepticism of Hume 307 IX. Reid rejects the Principle of Locke, and acknowledges the Existence of a priori Cognitions 309 X. The Theory of Reid does not run clear of Scepticism 311 XI. Kant deduces his Scepticism from the Fundamental Principle of Reid, even as Hume had deduced his from die fundamental Principle of Locke 314 XII. The Doctrine of Kant stated : he distinguishes Two Parts in our Cognitions — i.e. form and matter 315 XIII. How Kant seeks to prevent the chaise of Idealism 318 XIV. How Kant seeks to prevent the charge of Scepticism 319 XV. The Fundamental Error of the Philosophy of Kant 321 XVI. Another Error of the Philosophy of Kant 326 XVII. An Objection answered 329 XVIII. Philosophical Merit of Kant : he was fully sensible of the fact that to Think is nothing but to Judge 333 XIX. Kant saw very distinctly the nature of the difficulty to be overcome in accounting for the Origin of Human Cognitions 333 XX. Distinction between Analytical and Synthetical Judgments 335 XXI. The General Problem of Philosophy as stated by Kant 336 XXII. Is it true that we make Synthetical a priori Judgments? 339 XXIII. Is the Proposition, ‘Everything that Happens must have a Cause,’ a Synthetical a priori Judgment in the Kantian sense? 342 XXIV. The Ideological Problem was not properly stated by Kant 347 XXV. The Nature of the Ideological Problem is still more clearly set forth 348 XXVI. Are the First Judgments, through which we form the Concepts of Things, Synthetical in the Kantian sense? 350 XXVII. The Kantian Solution of the Ideological Problem 358 XXVIII. Kant did not understand the Nature of Intellectual Perception 361 XXIX. In what he admits as Innate in the Human Spirit, Kant errs at once by Defect and by Excess 362 XXX. Conclusion 364 CHAPTER IV. HOW PHILOSOPHY MAY BE SAID TO HAVE PROGRESSED BY MEANS OF PLATO, LEIBNITZ, AND KANT; AND WHAT IT STILL REQUIRES IN ORDER TO BE PERFECT. I. Recapitulation of the Three Systems 366 II. How the Kantian Forms are Vitiated by Excess, and how they are all Reducible to one only Form 370 Edition Notes Published in London Edition Identifiers Open Library OL25942560M Internet Archive TheOriginOfIdeasV1 OCLC/WorldCat 29511134 Work Identifiers Work ID OL15311250W Source records marc_columbia MARC record Community Reviews (0) No community reviews have been submitted for this work. + Log in to add your community review Lists Loading Lists Loading carousel Failed to fetch carousel. Retry? Loading carousel Failed to fetch carousel. Retry? Download catalog record: RDF / JSON Open Library Vision Volunteer Partner With Us Careers Blog Terms of Service Donate Discover Home Books Authors Subjects Collections Advanced Search Return to Top Develop Developer Center API Documentation Bulk Data Dumps Writing Bots Help Help Center Contact Us Suggesting Edits Add a Book Release Notes Change Website Language العربية (ar) Čeština (cs) Deutsch (de) English (en) Español (es) Français (fr) हिंदी (hi) Hrvatski (hr) Italiano (it) Português (pt) Română (ro) Sardu (sc) తెలుగు (te) Українська (uk) 中文 (zh) Open Library is an initiative of the Internet Archive , a 501(c)(3) non-profit, building a digital library of Internet sites and other cultural artifacts in digital form. Other projects include the Wayback Machine , archive.org and archive-it.org version 3ecd50c
