<!-- source_type: books -->
# History of the World's Fair

- source_type: books
- source: openlibrary
- url: https://openlibrary.org/works/OL1618262W
- discovered_at: 2026-04-16T22:56:12.269882+00:00

## Notes

History of the World's fair by Benjamin Cummings Truman | Open Library It looks like you're offline. Donate ♥ English (en) العربية (ar) Čeština (cs) Deutsch (de) English (en) Español (es) Français (fr) हिंदी (hi) Hrvatski (hr) Italiano (it) Português (pt) Română (ro) Sardu (sc) తెలుగు (te) Українська (uk) 中文 (zh) Page Status My Books Browse Menu Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search All All Title Author Text Subject Lists Advanced Log In Sign Up My Open Library Log In Sign Up Browse Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search Contribute Add a Book Recent Community Edits Resources Help & Support Developer Center Librarians Portal My Books Browse Menu Subjects Trending Library Explorer Lists Collections K-12 Student Library Book Talks Random Book Advanced Search Overview View 5 Editions Details Reviews Lists Related Books An edition of History of the World's Fair (1893) History of the World's fair Being a Complete and Authentic Description of the Columbian Exposition From Its Inception by Benjamin Cummings Truman ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ 5.0 (1 rating) 5 Want to read 1 Have read Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code History of the World's fair Benjamin Cummings Truman, Benj ... History of the World's fair × Close Read Listen Locate ✓ Add to List Remove From Shelf Want to Read Currently Reading Already Read My Reading Lists: Use this Work Create a new list Create a new list × Close Name: Description: Create new list Cancel 1 2 3 4 5 Clear my rating Review Notes My Book Notes × Close My private notes about this edition: Delete Note Save Note Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ 5.0 (1 rating) 5 Want to read 1 Have read Review 1 2 3 4 5 Clear my rating Notes My Book Notes × Close My private notes about this edition: Delete Note Save Note Share × Close Facebook Twitter Pinterest Embed Copy URL QR Code Download Options PDF Plain text ePub MOBI DAISY Check nearby libraries WorldCat Buy this book Fetching prices Overview View 5 Editions Details Reviews Lists Related Books Last edited by MARC Bot December 23, 2025 | History Edit An edition of History of the World's Fair (1893) History of the World's fair Being a Complete and Authentic Description of the Columbian Exposition From Its Inception by Benjamin Cummings Truman ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ 5.0 (1 rating) 5 Want to read 1 Have read History of the World's fair Edit This book is about the World's Fair of 1893 in Chicago. The 'Columbian Exposition' was named after and dedicated to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Columbus' arrival in The Americas. The Fair lasted from May 1 to October 30, 1893. It was placed on a area of more then two square kilometers, featuring nearly 200 new buildings of classical architecture, many of which represented some of the 50 participating countries from around the world, as wells as canals and lagoons. The book is written with the help of many people involved in creating of the Fair. With approximately 175 Pictures, and 139 Illustrations, (not counting the chapter headings), of many of the Fair's attractions. It was published by numberous companies the first year and republished. It's known releases are; * J. W. Keller & Co. Philadelphia, PA * Mammoth Pub. Co., Philadelphia, PA * H. W. Kelley, Philadelphia, PA * McDermid & Logan. London, and Ontario * Planet Publishing, St. Louis * Keystone Publishing Co. * T. H. Bodge & Co., Augusta, Maine. * Arno Press, 1976 J. W. Keeler & Co. version Egyptian Water Carriers--Midway Plaisance page 424 Mammoth Publishers Co. version "Great Wharf--Moving Sidewalk" page 424 Publish Date 1893 Publisher Mammoth publishing company Language English Pages 610 Check nearby libraries WorldCat Buy this book Fetching prices Previews available in: English Subjects Fairs , Liberty Bell , World's Columbian Exposition (1893 : Chicago, Ill.) , World's Fair , architecture , Pictorial works , Exhibitions , World's Columbian Exposition (1893 : Chicago, Ill.) http://id.loc.gov/authorities/names/n80008759 , History , World's Columbian Exposition (1893 : Chicago, Ill.) (uri) http://id.loc.gov/authorities/names/n80008759 (uri) http://viaf.org/viaf/sourceID/LC|n80008759 People Daniel Hudson Burnham , John Thorpe , Moses Purnell Handy , Mrs. Potter Palmer (Bertha Honore Palmer) , Presedent Cleveland , Stephen Grover Cleveland , Thomas B. Bryan , Thomas Witherell Palmer Places Chicago (Ill.) Times 1893 Edition Availability 1 History of the World's Fair: being a complete description of the World's Columbian Exposition from its inception 1985, s.n. Microform in English 0665486960 9780665486968 zzzz Locate 2 History of the World's Fair: being a complete and authentic description of the Columbian Exposition from its inception 1976, Arno Press in English 0405077149 9780405077142 zzzz Locate 3 History of the World's fair: being a complete and authentic description of the Columbian exposition from its inception 1893, H.W. Kelley in English bbbb Read Listen Locate 4 History of the World's fair: Being a Complete and Authentic Description of the Columbian Exposition From Its Inception 1893, Mammoth publishing company Hardcover in English aaaa Read Listen Locate 5 History of the World's Fair: Being a Complete and Authentic Description of the Columbian Exposition From Its Inception 1893, J. W. Keeler & Co. Hardcover in English zzzz Locate Add another edition? Book Details Table of Contents Introduction. 19 PART I. Origin of the Exposition. Chapter I. How Chicago Secured the Celebration. How and when the Columbian Exposition was conceived--The idea of a celebration of the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America by Christopher Columbus originated with T. W. Zaremba--His first desire was to have it in Mexico--How this indefatigable gentleman pursued the object of his thought--How Chicago took hold of the enterprise--Other metropolitan cities take a hand--Splendid work of leading Chicago men in Washington--Persistency of all parties interested--The real contest between Chicago and New York--Chicago successful--Congress votes in its favor--Preliminary action--Subscription of stock--Board of Directors and other officers elected--Lyman J. Gage the first president of the Chicago directory--Congressional provisions for commissioners--Raising of money--Appointment of commissioners--Zaremba's active life--Appointment of Hon. Thomas B. Bryan commissioner-at-large-Mr. Bryan's splendid work in Europe--A gentleman and a scholar--Few men living with such rare attainments. 21 Commissioner-At-Large Thomas B. Bryan's opinion of the lasting benefits of the Fair. 29 Chapter II. The Pillars of the Exposition. The men to whose charge the construction of the great work has been intrusted from its conception--Officials of the directory--Standing committees--Council of Administration and Board of Control--Forty-five big, earnest men of Chicago. 31 PART II. The National Commission. Chapter I. First Meeting of the National Commision. Appointment of commissioners by President Harrison First--meeting convened by Secretary Blaine--Hon. A. T. Ewing, of Illinois, calls the commission to order in the parlor of the Grand Pacific hotel in Chicago--Rev. John Barrows makes a prayer--John T. Harris, of Virginia, temporary chairman--Thomas W.Palmer, of Michigan, unanimously selected as permanent president--John T. Dickinson, of Texas, made permanent secretary in the same way--Sketches of the lives of these two gentlemen--Selection of vice-presidents-- Adjournment. 39 Chapter II. Members of the National Commission. Complete roster of the men who speak for the Nation and the states and territories they represent, and the places of their residence--Complete list of officers--Members of the National Executive Committee and Board of Reference and Control. 47 Chapter III. George R. Davis Elected Director-General. Some of the remarks made upon the occasion--Davis has a majority on the first ballot--His address to the commission--Interesting sketch of the life and service of Colonel Davis--A brave soldier, a man of honor and a renowned party leader--He is endowed with splendid qualities of mind and heart--The standing committees--Creation of the great departments--The commissioners wrestle with the Sunday opening question. 53 PART III. Commencement and Progress of Work. Chapter I. A Wonderful Metamorphosis. Jackson Park in 1891--An uninviting strip of sand, swamp and scrub oaks--No redeeming feature except area and location--The most magnificent transformation scene ever presented to mankind--Twenty-five millions of dollars expended on buildings and improvements--Director of Works Daniel H. Burnham and his engineers, architects, sculptors, painters and landscape designers, transform a spot of swamp and sand into a white city of palaces and collonades--Terraces, towers, turrets and statuary on every hand--Plantations of massive foliage and flowering plants--Beautiful fountains and picturesque water ways--Artificial canals that put to blush shores of the bride of the sea--Burnham and his staff. 63 Chapter II. Early Preparation of Flowers. John Thorpe sent to the front--The erection of greenhouses and other floricultural structures--Loans of palms and ferns by wealthy owners of conservatories in Philadelphia and New York--Millions of plants under way--A mountain of palms and ferns--A winter exhibition--Magnificent tribute paid the great florist by the brilliant John McGovern--Press and people filled with admiration and praise--A flowery article from "Uncle John". 69 Chapter III. Department of Publicity and Promotion. The object of its organization--A unique and highly advantageous system of free advertising--How the world has been informed of all the details of the commencement, progress and completion of the gigantic work--A perfect system of distribution of information of daily happenings conceived and matchlessly executed--Quarter of a million documents mailed in a single week--Thirty thousand electrotypes of buildings sent out--Ninety thousand lithographs judiciously given away--More than a hundred thousand dollars worth of postage stamps used--Stupendous advantages derived therefrom--Graphic sketch of the distinguished department commander. 73 Chapter IV. Department of Foreign Affairs. The selection of Hon. Walter Fearn as chief--A difficult task at first--Mr. Fearn's own conceptions of the duties imposed upon him--None doubted that the gallant diplomatist was equal to the task--His brilliant achievements are reflected in every portion of Jackson Park--Sketch of Walter Fearn--Soldier, scholar, traveler, and gentleman--One of the most elegant and fascinating Americans at home and abroad. 77 Chapter V. The Press and the Columbian Guard. Splendid service of the Columbian guard--Cursed, reviled and knocke i down and otherwise abused, they faithfully perform their multiform duties of fireman and police--They extinguish 284 fires and save Machinery Building from total destruction--The thanks of the Exposition are due to Colonel Edmund Rice and the Columbian guard--Also to John Bonfield and his secret service police--The Fair indebted to the Chicago press more than to all other things combined. 79 Part IV. The Dedicatory Exercises. Chapter I. Arrival of Distinguished People. Vice-President Morton acts for President Harrison--General Schofield and his staff, the Cabinet Ministers, Justices of the Supreme Court, and many foreign ambassadors come to Chicago--The city filled with soldiers, Senators and Congressmen--Nearly all the Governors of the States and Territories arrive accompanied by their military staffs--Texas sends thirteen handsome young women as representatives of the original thirteen states--Bishop Fowler and Cardinal Gibbons received by other church dignitaries--Grand dedication ball at the Auditoriam--Brilliant appearance of State street--Hotels and boulevards jammed with strangers--Gorgeous uniforms everywhere. 83 Chapter II. Great Parade of Tradesmen. Eighty thousand men in line--More than one hundred bands of music--Half a million persons witness the grandest civic parade ever seen in any country--Vice-President Morton reviews the moving masses--Great gatherings of distinguished people--Men of peace resplendent in habiliments of war--Flashing uniforms and eloquent medals of honor--All professions and all trades represented--Fifteen hundred American banners borne proudly by naturalized citizens of all nations--Generals Miles and Schofield consider the parade a wonderful success--Masses of school children attired in the National colors portray a beautiful design--Great deference paid to the representative of the Nation. 87 Chapter III. Grand Military Procession and Review. The 21st of October, 1892, a day long to be remembered--Grand review at Washington Park in the presence of two hundred thousand people--The Marine Band of Washington and the Mexican Band of the City of Mexico make music--Thirty-eight other bands and fifteen thousand soldiers in the procession--Vice-President Morton, Director-General Davis, Presidents Palmer and Higinbotham, Ex- President Hayes, the Justices of the United States Supreme Court, General Schofield and staff and governors of thirty-one states in carriages--Carriages also contained Henry Watterson, Chauncey M. Depew, Cardinal Gibbons, Bishop Fowler, National Commissioners, Lady Managers, Foreign Commissioners, Directois, Chiefs of Departments, members of City Council and others--Tremendous enthusiasm all along the line from Washington Park to the Manufactures Building--All the governors and all the soldier boys cheered--Flower, Russell, Boies and McKinley vociferously saluted--The jolly author of Peck's Bad Boy an especial favorite. 91 Chapter IV. Commencement of the Exercises. One hundred thousand people in attendance--Grand orchestra of two hundred pieces and a chorus of five thousand voices under Theodore Thomas--Bishop Fowler's prayer and the opening address of the Director-General--Hempstead Washburne's brilliant remarks--Reading and singing the Dedicatory Ode. 95 Chapter V. Dedication of the Buildings. President Higinbotham bestows the commemoratory medals--The President of the Commission receives the buildings from the President of the Exposition and the latter presents them to the Vice-President of the United States for dedication--Mr. Morton dedicates them to the World's Progress in Art, Science, Agriculture and Manufactures--"God Save the United States of America". 101 Chapter VI. Mrs. Potter Palmer's Brilliant Address. The liberation of women--They now have time to think, to be educated, to plan and pusue careers of their own choosing--The application of machinery to the performance of many heretofore laborious occupations of women relieves them of much oppression--Public sentiment will yet favor woman's industrial equality and just compensation for services rendered--She now drinks deeply of the long-denied fountain of knowledge--Is the world ready to give her industrial aud intellectual independence, and to open all doors before her. 111 Chapter VII. The Dedicatory Oration. Magnificent effort of Henry Watterson--Grand and patriotic throughout--The earnest Kentuckian touches brilliantly upon many of the salient points from 1492 to the present day--From the hillside of Santa Rabida to the present hour of celebration--No geography in American manhood--No sections to American fraternity--The rise of the young republic--The drum taps of the Revolution--The tramp of the minute men--The curse of slavery gone--The mirage of separation vanished--A great and undivided country. 115 Chapter VIII. The Glowing Tribute of Chauncey M. Depew. An oration so brilliant as to hold every listener spell-bound--Columbus, the discoverer, Washington, the founder, Lincoln, the savior--God always has in training some commanding genius for the control of great crises in the affairs of nations and people--Neither realism nor romance furnishes a more striking and picturesque picture than that of Christopher Columbus--The magician of the compass belonged to that high order of "cranks " who confidently walk where "angels fear to tread"--Continents are his monuments--Prayer by Cardinal Gibbons and benediction by Rev. H. C. McCosh, of Philadelphia--Grand display of fireworks closed the dedication festivities. 125 Part V. Official Opening of the Exposition. Chapter I. The Great Review on the Hudson River. Rendezvous of war vessels of many nations at Fortress Monroe--The Caravels and the Infanta Isabella--The fleet at Sandy Hook--Review on the Hudson River--The most spectacular and impressive marine event of any age--A million of people present--Mrs. Cleveland on the Dolphin--Description of the Caravels--The strength of the United States Navy never shown to better advantage--The British cruisers represented the best attainments in marine construction--How France and Germany engaged in friendly salutations--Vessels from the Baltic, the Mediterranean and South American waters. 137 Chapter II. Arrival of Mr. Cleveland and the Duke of Veragua. The President of the United States and the Duke of Veragua come to Chicago to be present at the opening of the Exposition-They are met at the depot by distinguished people and escorted to their hotels by military-Great turnouts all along the line--How Mr. Cleveland spent Sunday in Chicago--He attends church in the morning and christens a grandchild of Secretary Gresham in the afternoon--The Duke attends mass and receives calls. 147 Chapter III. Another Distinguished Arrival. Independence Bell--Its progress from Philadelphia to Chicago--It receives an ovation all the way--Cannons and speeches by day and bonfires and red lights by night--The venerable relic seen by great crowds of people--It shares the honorable welcome paid to President Cleveland and the Duke of Veragua upon its arrival in Chicago--Received by military and music and escorted to Jackson Park by a procession two miles long--George Lippard's vivid picture of the revolutionary tones whose echoes have never died away Its sounds still listened to by the American people. 151 Chapter IV. The Formal Opening of the Exposition. Nearly a quarter of a million people present--President Cleveland presses the magic electric button at noon, May 1, 1893, and the monster Allis Engine in Machinery Hall is set in motion amidst the booming of cannon, the blowing of trumpets, the ringing of bells, the unfurling of flags and the vociferations of the multitude--The white palaces abloom and ablaze with color--Twenty thousand flags are unfurled--Half a hundred, foreign emblems cheered by the people who live under them--The orchestra play the national hymn and thousands of patriotic men and women join in the chorus--The spectacle as seen from the Administration Building--President Cleveland's address. 155 PART VI. The Women of the Exposition and Woman's Work. Chapter I. The Woman's Building and its Purposes. New methods of usefulness created--The Woman's Building an additional agency for the exposition of woman's work--Misconception concerning woman's skill and inventiveness cleared away--Women the originators of most of the industrial arts--The Woman's Building an inspiration of woman's genius--Some of the exhibits--Mrs. Palmer's curious office room--The fish women of New Jersey. 163 Chapter II. The Women Who Control. Generally known as the Board of Lady Managers of the World's Columbian Exposition--A large number of prominent women among the members--Names and residences and official positions. 167 Chapter III. Formal Opening of the Woman's Building. Mrs. Potter Palmer's address--Driving of the last nail--A woman's hand drives the golden nail with a silver hammer--A beautiful structure, the completion of which signified an accomplishment in which the united womanhood of the world has had a part--Large number of distinguished women present--A grand march composed by a German woman, Frau Ingeborg von Bronsart of Weimar--Prayer by Miss Ida Hutton--Overture by Miss Frances Elliott, of London, England--Reading of a poem by Miss Flora Wilkinson--Remarks by Lady Aberdeen, the Duchess of Veragua, Mrs. Bedford Fenwick, Mrs. Kaselowsky and the Princess Schachoffsky. 173 Chapter IV. Other Features of the Woman's Building. Illustrated English hospital methods--Costumes of the nurses displayed to advantage--Even the demonstration of intense suffering proves of great interest--Surgical instruments used by nurses--Opal glasses used for measuring medicines--Display of infants' hygienic clothing--Models of nurses--The dainty dietary section--Gowns and caps of the Sisters of St. Thomas--Egyptian and Arabian nurses in nursing and holiday attire--Miss Marsden's model Siberian leper village--What a Denver woman would do illustrated--Work of Navajoe Indian women--Work of East Indian women--Rare specimens of needlework--Mrs. Rogers' culinary lectures and examples in cooking. 187 Chapter V. The Children's Building. The prettiest playhouse and nursery ever constructed--Panels containing the "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood"--"Silverhair and the Bears"--Rosy cherubs and opalescent clouds--Sweet and wise sayings on the walls--"Come, let us with our children live"--What a Columbian guard found in the Manufactures Building--A little girl baby in the corner. 193 Mrs. Ormiston Chant's plea for the children and the Children's Building. 197 The world and the World's Fair, by Director General Davis. 199 Part VII. The Main Buildings and their Exhibit. Chapter I. The Administration Building. A marvel of exquisite architectural handiwork--Were it stone instead of imitation it would have no equal--Irresistible color scheme and effect--Beautiful blending of pale blue, terra cotta, bright yellow and palt cream--Unsurpassed decorative delineations--Matchless fusion of harmonious tints--Impressive ensemble of rotunda, colonnade, mezzanine and dome--Dedicatory tablets to Gutenberg, Copernicus, James Watts and Morse--The most beautifully lighted structure in the world. 203 Chapter II. The Mammoth Manufactures Building. The greatest exposition structure ever known--It covers nearly forty acres of ground and contains forty-four acres of exhibits, valued at fifty millions of dollars--Three million feet of lumber and five carloads of nails in the main floor--It is 1,687 feet long and 787 feet wide--Many of the foreign pavilions built after designs of famous palaces--Rare and costly wares, fabrics, watches, jewelry, musical and mechanical instruments and professional implements amaze the beholder on every hand--The great central landmark an alabaster clock tower 135 feet high, erected by the American Clock Co.--A chime of nine bells--When they ring it sounds like the music of heaven reverberating through the immense space--Pantheon-like pavilion of the Meridian-Britannia Ware--Tiffany's costly structure--A dazzling aggregation of gems--Splendid display of watches and jewelry--Elegant and spacious booth of the Waltham Watch Company--Stem-winders by the ton--Palaces and temples filled with laces, rich chinaware, porcelain, statuary, silverware, textile fabrics, etc.--Silver statue of Columbus at the Gorham pavilion-Dolls that talk and walk--Petrified wonders from Arizona--Dazzling displays by forty foreign countries--Reproduction of Hatfield House--Concentrated splendor of the Siam exhibit--Magnificent displays by all the leading European countries--Sketch of James Allison, Chief of Department of Manufactures. 209 Chapter III. Department of Liberal Arts. The most important educational feature of the Exposition--Wonderful and complete in every detail--Tremendous advantages to be derived from this matchless exhibition--Every state in the Union and nearly every country in the world represented--Splendid exhibits from Montreal and Quebec--An interesting display by the American Bible Society--The Lincoln manuscripts--The only letter that Jefferson Davis wrote to Abraham Lincoln--Tens of thousands of unique and charming features--Sketch of Professor Peabody--"Trip around the world". 239 Chapter IV. Department of Ethnology Anthropology: "Man and His Works"--What may be seen at the Ethnological Building--The Mound Builders of Ohio--Splendid collection from Mexico, Costa Rica and New South Wales--Views of plans and models of prehistoric men--Prehistoric architectural monuments and habitations--Natural and artificial cave dwellings--Lacustrine dwellings--Sweat houses, totem poles cliff dwellings and skin lodges--Implements of war and the chase--Furniture and clothing of aboriginal, uncivilized and partly civilized races--Objects of spiritual significance and veneration--Representation of dieties--Appliances of worship--Historic archaeology--Objects illustrating the progress of nations--Models and representations of ancient vessels--Clothing and adornment--Apparatus for making clothing and ornaments--Articles used in cooking and eating--Models and representation of ancient buildings--Cities and monuments of the historic period anterior to the discovery of America--Objects illustrating generally the progress of the amelioration of the conditions of life and labor--The evolution of labor-saving machines and implements--Portraits, busts and statues of great inventors and others who have contributed largely to the progress of civilization and the well-being of man--Eulalia entertained by the Quackahl Indians Sketch of Professor Putnam. 255 Chapter V. Agricultural Building. The great resort of farmers--A beautiful structure--The spirit of agriculture grandly personified--Blandishments of field and farm--Bewildering avenues of extremely unique and ornamental pavilions--All the industries picturesquely shown--Nineteen acres of exhibits--Novel exhibit of the Association of American Experimental Stations and Agricultural Colleges--All the essential products derived from agriculture are attractively shown in the galleries--Grasses and grains varied in colors and beautifully blended--The exhibit of Ontario--The monster cheese weighs eleven tons--It is the largest ever made--Little cheeses that only weigh one thousand pounds each--Elaborate state exhibits--Burdett-Coutts' stable exhibits--Many things from foreign lands--Mowers, harvesters, thrashers and plows by the acre--Sketch of Chief Buchanan--Live stock exhibit--Dog shows and carrier pigeon flights--Bovine blue bloods. 265 Chapter VI. Among the Trees of the World. Big trees and little trees from all over the world--The Forestry Building one of the most unique and interesting of all--Nature versus staff--Magnificent specimens of characteristic timber growths--Paraguay alone sends 321 varieties--California sends redwoods and sequoias--Medicinal trees, lichens and mosses--Methods of seed testing, transplanting and measuring--The protection of young trees against insects--Logging and lumbering--A saw mill in operation--A most entertaining and instructive exhibit throughout. 281 Chapter VII. Horticultural Building. The grandest and completest structure ever erected for a horticultural exhibit--It contains 89,000 square feet of space more than the combined areas of the buildings used for a similar purpose at Paris, the Centennial and New Orleans--Sketch of J. M. Samuels, Chief of the Department of Horticulture. 291 Chapter VIII. In the Realm of Rare Flowers and Plants. A ramble among rare and aristocratic plants--More than half a million dollars' worth from Greenland's icy mountain to India's coral strand--North and South America, Mexico, Cuba, Europe, Central America, China, Japan, Australia, and the Hawaiian and South Sea Islands represented--Enchantresses from the Amazon and the Nile--Modest inhabitants from the Alps, the Appenines, the Sierra Nevada, and the Mountains of the Moon--Wonderful ferns and palms from New South Wales and the Cape of Good Hope--Tens of thousands of miscellaneous herbaceous flowers and flowering shrubs--More than a half-million orchids, roses, carnations, lilies, pansies, cannas, fuschias and petunias--Magnificent exhibits by Australia, Canada, Trinidad, New York, Pennsylvania, Germany, Belgium, Mexico and Japan--Australian tree ferns six hundred years old--Staghorn and bird's nest ferns of wonderful size and beauty--Splendid collections of the cereus gigantea--Great display of rhododendrons--Splendid collections of ferns and palms from Toronto conservatories--Dwarf trees in the Japanese garden over a hundred years old--Pitcher & Manda's wonderful display of seven thousand costly plants--Enormous bamboos from Trinidad--Two century plants in bloom--The atmosphere of the Horticultural Building freighted with aromatic sweets. 295 Chapter IX. The French Floricultural Exhibit. Many new and rare flowering and foliage plants--The finest azaleas and rhododendrons ever seen in America--M. Jules Lemoine, principal gardener of the city of Paris, introduces many lovely and bewitching members of the realm of Flora and encircles the Woman's Building in bloom--He also enlivens other stretches of sward. 303 Chapter X. A Ramble Among Fruits and Wines. Other exhibits in the Horticultural Building--Side by side with the celebrated and world-renowned vintages of Europe are shown the products of American vineyards--Unique features of some of the foreign displays--Missouri, Ohio, New York and California are well represented--Fruits from nearly every state in the Union--Enormous apples, pears, peaches, plums, cherries and prunes from Idaho, Colorado, Oregon and Washington--Unsurpassed displays of thirty kinds of fruits by California's great citrus fruit exhibit by the state--Towers and pagodas of oranges and lemons from southern California attract great attention--Many fine displays of preserved, dried, canned and crystalized fruits and raisins from southern California--Big display of seeds by Peter Henderson, of New York--Great array of garden implements, tents, greenhouses, lawn mowers, fences, statuary, etc. 307 Chapter XI. Palace of Mechanic Arts A remarkably beautiful structure--It is 850x500 feet, and cost $1,200,000--The Allis engine the largest in the world--An aggregated 24,000 horse power--17,000 horse power required to provide electricity--Two dynamos each with a capacity of 10,000 lights--Ten engines averaging 2,000 horse power each--A fly wheel thirty feet in diameter--An engine whose combination of iron and steel weighs 225 tons--Its wheel and shaft alone weigh loo tons--Machinery of every description in operation--Manufacturing devices and machine tools by thousands--A highly interesting description of all the engines and boilers--How many things are manufactured right before one's eyes--Grier's ingrain lumber machine--An interesting relic--A striking contrast--Sketch of Chief Robinson. 313 Chapter XII. Transportation Building. Wonders in the way of railway trains--An object lesson for railroad operatives--The mahogany train of the Canadian Pacific Railway--The most costly and magnificent in the world--Its engine can haul ten full passenger cars sixty miles an hour--A tremendous engine from the London & Northwestern Railway, of England, and a handsome train--This locomotive can haul thirty of its coaches, each containing six passengers, seventy-five miles an hour--Its average time, including stops, fifty-three miles an hour--Stevenson's Rocket on exhibit--Also the Albion and Samson, built in 1838--Also the two first engines run over the Old Colony road, in the thirties--Another old-timer, built in England in 1831, and last in service in Mississippi in 1890--It puffed and whistled sixty years, and once fell overboard and staid under water from 1868 until 1870--More than fifty locomotives on exhibition, representing the Baldwin and other works--Three from England, three from Germany and four from France--The Baldwin has an engine that has made a mile in 39 1/4 seconds, or 92 miles an hour--All of the Baldwin locomotives are jacked up so that their engines may be seen in motion--Nicaragua canal relief map--Graphic illustration of that enterprise--Not more than $100,000,000 required to construct it--Excavation already in progress on the Atlantic end--Great exhibit of bicycles--Pneumatics of all sizes, degrees and conditions--The old-time bicycle practically unexhibited--Safeties all the go--Pennsylvania and New York Central exhibit--Coaches, buggies and baby carriages--Sledges, carretas and volantes--Marine architecture--Sedans, palenquins and cateches--The Transportation Building and the Department Chief. 329 Chapter XIII. Mines and Mixing Building. The Department of Mines excels all former exhibits of its kind--Included in this display is every kind of material from the rough state to the finished product--Artistic and instructive grouping--Striking exhibit from New South Wales--Michigan makes a fine display of copper in various shapes--Missouri shows zinc, lead, iron and other minerals--Canada contributes nickel, silver and gold--Montana's pavilion a centre of attraction--The silver statue of Ada Rehan--Colorado makes a magnificent and dazzling display--California shows gold, silver, copper, tin, borax, quicksilver, and many other minerals--Its marble and onyx exhibit challenges general admiration--Ponderous mining machinery in operation--Miniature mining plants, with devices for boring, lighting, hoisting and pulverizing--Methods of separating ores--Old style rockers and Long Toms--All the new implements--Magnificent exhibits of coal and iron by Ohio and Pennsylvania--The wonderful German exhibit--The finest ever made before in any country--Sketch of Chief Skiff. 345 Chapter XIV. Department of Electricity and its Building. Wonders of electricity--The building devoted to this science--Undreamed of revelations and effects--Franklin and his kite--The man who first harnessed lightning--Temple of the Western Electric Company--The grandeur and brilliancy of the exhibit--Thousands of concealed incandescents--Mingling of rainbow tones--Prismatic colors that awe the spectator--An electric theatre--Cascades of fantastic lights--Magnificent exhibit of Thomas A. Edison, the Wizard of Menlo Park--Startling and beautiful effects--Obelisks of light and color--Spirals of radiance and fountains of incandescents--Corinthian columns ablaze with imitation sunbeams--Five thousand witching lamps glitter in pillars of glass--Eighteen thousand lights in the Edison tower--Chief Barrett. 355 Chapter XV. Fish and Fisheries Building. One of the greatest of all the resorts--Magnificent display of many kinds of fresh and salt water fish--Minnows and alligators under the same roof--Some of the best known denizens of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans and the Gulf of Mexico are in the swim--Speckled trout from New England rivers and Dolly Vardens from the streams of California--Carp and suckers move lazily about--Perch, pike and pickerel in the same tank--Bass, flounders and salmon turn up their aristocratic smellers--Gold fish and other gaudy species splash merrily around--The sturgeon and showbill are spaciously quartered--Sketch of Chief Collins. 365 Chapter XVI. The Palace of Fine Art. A magnificent building throughout--Paintings and statuary from all parts of the wotld--Private collection of paintings from many homes--Pictures of every phase of life and nature--Animal and portrait paintings from all lands--Hundreds of beautiful marine and landscape sketches--Allegory and mythology from imperial galleries--Schnidler's "Market Scene in Cairo" --Canon's "Hunting Master"--The American Loan Association Joe Jefferson, "The Mauve"--Hovendin's "Breaking Home Ties"--The Emperor Francis Joseph's loan--England surprises with her beautiful paintings, and France maintains her fame as an art center--Sketch of Chief Ives. 379 Chapter XVII. The Government Building. Marvelous collection of exhibits made by "Uncle Sam"--Three thousand models from the patent office--Progress of American invention elaborately presented--The Smithsonian display alone a wonderful educator--Bird and beast mounted amid the same surroundings as in life--Each specimen so labeled that no observer can make a mistake--A first-class postoffice in operation--Dead letter curiosities--Tarantulas, horned toads, Human skulls, axes, dolls, molasses candy, stuffed owls, alligators, ostrich eggs, and thousands of other things that never reached their destination--War Department novelties--Great guns and little ones--Cannons and torpedoes--Historic documents from the Department of Justice--Documents connected with the Dred Scott Decision--Great exhibit by the Agricultural Department--Horticulture, pomology and forestry--Special Alaskan exhibit--Quaint, curious and interesting objects of ethnological research--Peculiarities of many birds and beasts. 397 Part VIII. Other Main Features Chapter I. The Shrine of the White City. Reproduction of the convent where Columbus and his son once took refuge--Court, cloister and corridor--The first Cross erected in America--Coins made from the first gold found in America--Letters patent and autographs from Ferdinand and Isabella--Collection of paintings on wood and rare Mosaics loaned by the Vatican--Two bells with a history--One of the cannons of the Santa Maria--More than a thousand paintings in all--Model of the Norse Ship--Books written by Marco Polo and Americus Vespucci--The sepulcherroom--Many pictures and relics of the last days of Columbus--La Rabida, the meccaof many pilgrims--The remains of the great navigator--The Battle Ship Illinois--A superb counterfeit man-of-war--A vessel that has never tossed on billows--The lighthouse and life-saving station--Hospital service. 409 Chapter II. The White Horse Inn and Krupp's Gun. Reproduction of a famous English hostlery--Coffee and cakes a la Francaise--Great guns as peacemakers--A gun weighing 121 tons that will send a shell fifteen miles--Opinions of Major-General Schofield--Shoe and Leather Building--Merchant Tailor's Building--Choral Hall--The Terminal Station--Intramural Railroad Service Building--Bureau of Admissions--Puck Building--White Star Line Pavilion--Windmills, hospitals, restaurants and New England Clam Bakes. 417 Chapter III. One of the Gems of the Fair. The Wooded Island--More than a million trees and plants--Fifty thousand roses--Hardy herbaceous plants from all over the world--The hunter's cabin and Japanese building--Timothy Hopkin's sweet peas--John Thorpe's church--A spot blessed by heaven and rivaling the rainbow. 427 Chapter IV. Fifty Cents for a Cup of Tea. Maria and her mother on a stroll--Tea from ten cents to fifty cents a cup--And tea for nothing--Bread known as the light of Asia--Where one may feel at home--That which stimulates but does not intoxicate--Few persons missed the tea gardens. 435 Chapter V. The Peristyle and Court of Honor. Columned splendor indeed--The impressive beauties of the Greek peristyle--Nothing like it has ever been seen or attempted--Music Hall and Casino--The pier and movable sidewalk--The Court of Honor by day and by night--Statue of the Republic and MacMonnies' Ship of State--The illuminated fountains. 439 Chapter VI. The Exposition Statuary. All is not gold that glitters--Venice in the zenith of her achievements was never so statuesque--Neither Rome nor Athens could point to so many inspiring effigies--A wonderful thing is "staff"-- "Distance lends enchantment to the view"--Massive statues that resemble marble made from scantling and plaster. 451 Part IX. Among the State Buildings. Chapter I. Illinois Building First and Foremost. It cost $230,000 and is the largest state structure on the grounds--Its admirable and commanding site--Its exhibits tell the story of the history of Illinois in a pictorial way--All the departments of the state represented--Reception and office rooms for the Governor--Work rooms of the agricultural and horticultural departments--Functions of state government admirably shown--Kindergarten interests liberally provided for--Bureau of information--Two large exhibition rooms--Archaeology and geographical survey--Grain commission, forestry and fish commission--Laboratory of natural history--One-tenth of the building occupied by the Illinois Woman's Exposition Board. 455 Chapter II. Away Down East. The good old state of Maine--Its latchstring always out--The Granite State modestly on top Old--John Hutchinson still sings--The commonwealth that gave us the hero of Ticonderoga--Massachusetts and its colonial structure--Many historic treasures--Relics innumerable--Little Rhody to the front--Clams, spindles, prints and Corliss engines represented--The Connecticut state building Dutch mantels, colonial architecture and dormer windows--An abundance of pretty girls but no wooden nutmegs. 459 Chapter III. A Galaxy of States. New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware--Stateliness of the building of the Empire State--Money liberally expended on wall, ceiling, floor, vestibule, arch, column and balustrade--The Pennsylvania Building--Many prefer it to any in the group--A very beautiful structure throughout--New Jersey reproduces the Washington Headquarters at Morristown--A revolutionary flavor and no mistake--Delaware, which raised the first money for the Exposition, has a picturesque building. 465 Chapter IV. Virginia, The Mother of Presidents. Mount Vernon reproduced--One of the most interesting collections of choice relics on the grounds--West Virginia and Maryland near by--Much that is colonial seen in these buildings--Old portraits, flint guns, cockades and continentals--West Virginia. 473 Chapter V. Way Down Soup 'Mong de Fields of Cotton. The governors of North and South Carolina are not in it--Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee also have no State buildings--Florida reproduces Fort Marion--Louisiana has a beautiful building--All its governors for one hundred years present--The Woman's World's Fair Exhibit Association of Texas erect a handsome building for the Lone Star State. 479 Chapter VI. The Noted Blue Grass State. A glance at its pretty women--Fleet horses and fine grasses of Kentucky--Kentuckians are boastful, but they never "talk through their hats"--Arkansas and its building--A fountain of Hot Springs crystal illuminated by incandescents--The forty-five thousand dollar building of Missouri--A territorial trio. 483 Chapter VII. The States by the Lakes. The beautiful building of Ohio--A great resort afternoons--Indiana's superb sixty-five thousand dollar edifice--Michigan's attractive building--Nothing to excel it in all round beauties--The Wolverines in their glory--The Badger State spends $30,000 to make its denizens comfortable. 487 Chapter VIII. Wheat and Corn Producing States Four great States--How they were represented in Congress thirty years ago--Unsurpassed display of Iowa--Grandeur of Minnesota--Minnehaha and Hiawatha--What the women of Minnesota have done for their State--Bleeding Kansas and its inviting display--The twenty thousand dollar building of Nebraska. 493 Chapter IX. Buildings of The States of the Great Interior. Horace Greeley's advice abundantly taken--Many millions go--West The noble structure of the Centennial State--The Wyoming and Montana buildings--Headquarters of the youngState of Idaho--The two Dakotas pretentiously represented--Utah takes a place among its full-grown sisters. 497 CHhapter X. A Peep at the Pacific Slope. California's reproduction of some of its old Mission churches--A unique blending of San Antonio, of Padua, San Juan, Capistrano, San Diego and Santa Barbara--100,000 square feet of space occupied by 266 exhibitors from the Golden State--Great columns and pyramids of fruits--Pavilion of redwood and laurel--Samples of gold, silver, copper, tin, quicksilver, iron, coal, borax and many other minerals--Orange, lemon, pomegranate, fig, lime and apricot trees in bearing--Towers of walnuts and almonds--Masses of dried, preserved and crystalized fruits--A live palm tree from San Diego County 127 years old, 50 feet in height, and weighing 47,000 pounds--Beautiful display of Spanish silk and silver work--The State of Washington--A wonderful exhibit--Woods, metals, cereals, and fruits in amazing abundance--A great display of taxidermy--The biggest flagstaff in the world. 503 Part X. Among the Foreign Buildings. Chapter I. Germany, Norway and Sweden. The German Building--A combination of numerous styles of architecture--Nearly a quarter of a million expended--A home of many gables, balconies and towers--Reproduction of a rural chapel--Collection of Bismarck souvenirs--Historical documents and copies of treaties--Tapestry, furniture, bronze, statuary and paintings from German factories and studios--Some beautiful work in carved oak--Handsome carpets and rugs--The pavilion of the Norwegians--A type of architecture which originated eight hundred years ago--Timbers from Christiana--The Swedish Building--Modern brick and terra cotta from prominent manufacturers of Sweden--The "Venice of the North"--Many of the products ofSweden represented--Exquisite embroideries and needle work--Panorama of Swedish landscape. 509 Chapter II. Great Britain's Victoria House. The more you see it the more you like it--A majestic but not gaudy interior--Double sweeps of staircases--A fine but subdued collection of furniture--Carved oak that reminds one of the times of Good Queen Bess--Associations that are halos--The East Indian Building--Tantalizing shawls and carpets--Brocades from Madras and Benares--A great collection of tapestries and embroideries. 519 Chapter III. Pavilions of France and Spain. The sword of Lafayette--A reproduction of the room in the Palace at Versailles in which Franklin was received--A large number of contributions from the Duke of Veragua--Letters patent to Columbus from Isabella--Commission from the King and Queen--Many interesting state papers. 523 Chapter IV. Canada and New South Wales. The provinces of Ontario and Quebec handsomely represented--Native Canadian shrubbery abundant--Highly polished Canadian woods--Various commercial, scientific, agricultural and educational articles shown--The classical pavilion of New South Wales--A credit to that far-off country. 529 Chapter V. The Attractive Ceylon Building. A mixed architecture of many native woods--Designs from ancient buildings--Figures of sacred birds and animals--Ornamental facades and pillars--Fancy designs in ceilings and walls--Carvings that take one back 543 years B. C.--The sacred tooth of Buddha--Sun and moon symbols. 533 Chapter VI. The Ottoman Pavilion. The resources of Turkey shown in twelve sections--Textile fabrics--Gold and silver and other minerals--Munitions of war, electrical appliances and many antiquities--Agricultural products--Silks and dye stuffs--An imitation of the Hunkhar Casque--Damascian carved woods--The Ottoman coat of arms--Damascus rugs and other oriental manufactures. 537 Chapter VII. The Two Central American Republics. The pavilion of Costa Rica--A modest but pretty building--Diminutive monkeys with lots of hair--Silks and fibres that fairly dazzle the eye--Coffee and waffles--A glance at Guatemala--Gardens that represent coffee plantations. 539 Chapter VIII. Brazil and Venezuela. The beautiful buildings of the two South American republics--Brazil has one of the most attractive pavilions on the grounds--Coffee served to Thousands daily--Venezuelans do their level best with coffee and beans--They show many swords and other trophies of General Simon Bolivar. 543 Part XI. The Midway Plaisance. Chapter I. Cairo Street and Turkish Village. A general combination of the architectural features of the city of Cairo Mosques, minarets, dancing girls, shopkeepers, musicians, camels, donkeys and dogs--The temple of Luxor reproduced--Tomb of the sacred bull--Nubians and Soudanese--Reproduction of tempies four thousand years old--A room full of mummies Egyptian shops and shopkeepers--No such sight ever seen before in Europe or America--Laplanders and their reindeers--Wonders of the Turkish village--Counterparts of objects in Constantinople--Turkish theatres and bazaars--The five million dollar tent of the Shah of Persia, which took one hundred years to make--Marvels of oriental tapestry and embroidery--Sword and handkerchief dances. 549 Chapter II. The Two Irish Villages. Lady Aberdeen's work--Blarney Castle and the village of Irish industries--A piece of the genuine Blarney stone--Carter Harrison's speech to the girls of Belfast and Cork--Lace-makers and weavers and butter and cheese makers from the land of no snakes--Mrs. Peter White Mrs. Ernest Hart and her village--A reproduction of Donegal Castle--Eighteen Celtic lasses--Good Irish buttermilk--Irish airs on Irish pipes. 561 Chapter III. The Javanese and South Sea Islanders. The quaint buildings of the Javanese a great resort--Everything as neat as a pin--More than one hundred people--And such tea and coffee--Personal appearance of the Javanese--Their bamboo dwellings--The Javanese theatre and orchestra--Ten attractive dancing girls from Solo--"Klass" and his peculiarities--The South Sea Islanders--A great exhibit--Cannibal and war dances. 565 Chapter IV. The Germans and Austrians. Cottages from the Black Forest--The Town Hall of Hesse--Westphalia and the banks of the Rhine--Glimpses of Berlin and Bavaria--A reproduction of one of the streets of Old Vienna--Forty-eight stores--The Emperor's own band--The cost of the village nearly $130,000--It opened with a banquet. 575 Chapter V. Among Other Nations. The village of the almond-eyed Mongolian--The electric theater--The Libbey Glass Works--The Ferris Wheel the greatest piece of machinery in the world--Pretty imitation of La Tour Eiffel--Carl Hagenback's menagerie--The big, black Dahomeyans and many other attractions. 579 Live Stock Exhibit. 590 World's Congress Auxiliary. 592 Chicago's Own Day at the Fair. 595 Red Letter Days. 599 Chapter VI. End of the Exposition. Official closing day of the Great Fair--Impressive termination of the most magnificent creation of any age--A vast throng present--The illuminated fountains play for the last time--The great search lights blaze out the close--Electric switches turn off their tens of thousands of arcs and incandescents forever--The terrible death of Carter H. Harrison, the World's Fair Mayor, by the bullet of an assassin, precludes the possibility of carrying out a program of oratory, music and pyrotechnics--The Mayor's Day--Mayor Harrison's last speech--His last signature was at the Tiffany pavilion--Symposium of reports and Addresses in the Woman's Building--Lady managers kiss and say good bye--Destruction of the Exposition commences on Wooded Island--Some interesting facts and figures--Paid admissions reach nearly 22,000,000--The Exposition pays all its bills and has nearly $3,000,000 in bank. 601 Edition Notes Published in Chicago, USA Copyright Date 1893 Classifications Library of Congress T500.B1 T8 The Physical Object Format Hardcover Pagination 610 p. Number of pages 610 Edition Identifiers Open Library OL7250321M Internet Archive historyofworldsf00trum LCCN 03018450 OCLC/WorldCat 425028 , 24393718 Work Identifiers Work ID OL1618262W Source records Internet Archive item record Internet Archive item record Harvard University record Harvard University record Community Reviews (0) No community reviews have been submitted for this work. + Log in to add your community review Lists Loading Lists Loading carousel Failed to fetch carousel. Retry? Loading carousel Failed to fetch carousel. Retry? Download catalog record: RDF / JSON Open Library Vision Volunteer Partner With Us Careers Blog Terms of Service Donate Discover Home Books Authors Subjects Collections Advanced Search Return to Top Develop Developer Center API Documentation Bulk Data Dumps Writing Bots Help Help Center Contact Us Suggesting Edits Add a Book Release Notes Change Website Language العربية (ar) Čeština (cs) Deutsch (de) English (en) Español (es) Français (fr) हिंदी (hi) Hrvatski (hr) Italiano (it) Português (pt) Română (ro) Sardu (sc) తెలుగు (te) Українська (uk) 中文 (zh) Open Library is an initiative of the Internet Archive , a 501(c)(3) non-profit, building a digital library of Internet sites and other cultural artifacts in digital form. Other projects include the Wayback Machine , archive.org and archive-it.org version 3ecd50c
