# Research Papers on Automatic Mixing

This file contains text extracted from scientific papers regarding automatic multitrack mixing, DSP, and differentiable mixing consoles.

## Paper: 2010.15239.pdf

A Cloud-Based Energy Management Strategy for Hybrid Electric City Bus Considering Real-Time Passenger Load Prediction Junzhe Shi1, Bin Xu2*, Xingyu Zhou3, Jun Hou4* 1: University of California, Berkeley, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, 760 Davis Hall, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. 2: Clemson University, Department of Automotive Engineering, 4 Research Dr., Greenville, SC, 29607, USA 3: University of Texas, Austin, Department of Mechanical Engineering, 204 E. Dean Keeton Street, Stop C2200 ETC II 5.160 Austin, TX, 78712, USA.  4: University of Michigan, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, 1301 Beal Avenue, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109, USA. * Corresponding author: Bin Xu, Clemson University, Department of Automotive Engineering, 4 Research Dr., Greenville, SC, 29607, USA. Phone: 864-626-8335, Email: xbin@clemson.edu. Jun Hou, University of Michigan, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, 221 Santa Clara Way, San Mateo, CA 94403, USA. Phone: 734-272-5516, Email: junhou@umich.edu. Abstract - Electric city bus gains popularity in recent years for its low greenhouse gas emission, low noise level, etc. Different from a passenger car, the weight of a city bus varies significantly with different amounts of onboard passengers. After analyzing the importance of battery aging and passenger load effects on an optimal energy management strategy, this study introduces the passenger load prediction into the hybrid-electric city buses energy management problem, which is not well studied in the existing literature. The average model, Decision Tree, Gradient Boost Decision Tree, and Neural Networks models are compared in the passenger load prediction. The Gradient Boost Decision Tree model is selected due to its best accuracy and high stability. Given the predicted passenger load, a dynamic programming algorithm determines the optimal power demand for supercapacitor and battery by optimizing the battery aging and energy usage leveraging cloud techniques. Then, rule extraction is conducted on dynamic programming results, and the rule is real-time loaded to the vehicle onboard controller to handle prediction errors and uncertainties. The proposed cloud-based Dynamic Programming and rule extraction framework with the passenger load prediction show 4% and 11% lower bus operating costs in off-peak and peak hours, respectively. The operating cost by the proposed framework is less than 1% of the dynamic programming with the true passenger load information.   Keywords: Electric city bus, Cloud computing, Vehicle to infrastructure, Dynamic programming, Passenger load prediction    1. Introduction 1.1 Background Greenhouse gas emissions by human activities have been dominating global warming since the mid-20th century [1]. Reducing carbon dioxide emissions by minimizing conventional fossil fuel applications is the key to sustainable development for the whole world. In particular, from the transportation perspective, the electrified propulsion systems [2] has become a promising alternative to the conventional internal combustion powertrains across the globe.  

The hybrid energy storage system (HESS), which combines batteries and supercapacitors, has high potentials in vehicular applications because it entails the advantages of both supercapacitors and batteries, including high power density and high energy density [3]. Among different types of vehicles, city buses are ideal for applying the HESS to reduce carbon dioxide emissions due to the high passenger loading capacities [4]. The performance of a complex HESS highly depends on its energy management strategy (EMS) [5]. The manufacturing cost of a hybrid electric city bus is mostly on the batteries, which have a much shorter cycle life than supercapacitors [6]. Thus, the EMS of hybrid electric city buses, aiming to minimize both electric consumption cost and battery degradation cost during operation, is worth being investigated. 1.2 Literature Review In the literature, various EMSs have been designed and discussed for hybrid electric buses. The most popular methods include the rule-based method, Dynamic Programming (DP), and Model Predictive Control (MPC).  The rule-based method is commonly exploited to devise the EMS in the existing automotive industry for real-time applications, and it builds rules based on expert knowledge or heuristic principles. A rule-based EMS, rooted in DP optimization, is proposed for an electric bus with battery aging considered [7]. In the simulation, operation cost improvements are obtained, and such a rule-based strategy achieves a battery life extension. A fuzzy-logic rule-based EMS is proposed to determine series and parallel operation mode for a hybrid electric bus [8]. The results show the proposed rule-based method effectively controls the energy consumption of the engine and maintains battery charge levels. Simulation results indicate less energy consumption than that of conventional engine-only drivetrain. However, these rules are fixed once they are developed and do not adapt to real-time varying conditions. Different from rule-based methods, DP and MPC are optimization-based methods. DP is a global optimization method that can address system nonlinearities and constraints. [9] utilizes a DP to deal with the integrated optimization for deriving energy splitting strategies of a hybrid electric city bus. A preset cost function is employed to evaluate the HESS life cycle cost, and derive the best configuration and energy split strategies of a hybrid electric city bus system, including a battery and a supercapacitor. MPC is an optimal control strategy that is used to solve optimization problems with a designed predication horizon while satisfying a set of constraints. DP can also be used as an optimization solver for MPC, but its high computational cost limits the its real-time applications for MPC. In [10], an MPC with a Pareto-front analysis of the objective functions is used to reduce fuel consumption and battery degradation. However, MPC only considers short prediction horizons and its solution is only local optimal. As discussed in the abovementioned papers, optimization-based methods provide more desired cost-saving results than rule-based methods do. However, these optimization-based methods require accurate predictions of future operating conditions; once driving conditions are different from the predicted one, the performances of the above methods cannot be guaranteed. Besides, the high computational burden and real-time feasibility of DP and MPC are always concerns. Nowadays, the rapid development of intelligent transportation systems and the widespread use of cloud computing offer excellent opportunities to improve the overall performance of energy management strategies [11]. However, to the best of authors’ knowledge, only limited literature discuss the methods of using cloud techniques to improve the EMS in hybrid electric vehicles. [12] applies both MPC and DP in a plug-in hybrid electric bus, and provides a feasible solution to address the high computational cost of DP and collect future power demand data by utilizing vehicle-to-cloud (V2C) connectivity. A two-layer data-driven supervisory EMS which leverages V2C connectivity is proposed to increase energy efficiency [13]. In the EMS, a DP is run in the cloud layer to minimize energy consumption, while an MPC scheme is operated in onboard layers to solve the real-time powertrain control problem. However, this EMS does not consider battery degradation in the optimization. Besides, the above two EMSs require a high computational MPC running at the vehicle level, and do not guarantee the real-time feasibility of MPC. Unlike a normal passenger car, the weight change of a city bus due to the passenger load effect can be up to 40% of its total weight [14].  By taking the parameters of the newest Mercedes-Benz eCitaro into count, the passenger load effect can even lead to 43% of the total weight change of the bus [15]. Power demand varies significantly along with different passenger load when the buses are travelling at relatively high speed and accelerations [16]. For example, a higher passenger load leads to a higher power demand peak during acceleration and requires more control efforts to avoid charging or discharging batteries with high C-rates to minimize the battery capacity loss. An EMS of hybrid 

electric city buses, which does not consider the passenger load effect, will lead to extra operation cost and thus should not be considered as an optimal control strategy. However, there is a paucity of literature that discusses the passenger load effect on an optimal energy management strategy generation of hybrid city buses.  In summary, the following research gaps are identified based on the literature review: 1) Rule-based methods lack optimization. MPC only considers short prediction horizon and its solution is only local optimal. Even though DP generates global optimal solutions, it is a computationally heavy algorithm and can only be executed offline. It is challenging to execute DP in real-time energy management. 2) Only a limited amount of literature exploits cloud techniques and proposes a practical method to improve the EMS of hybrid electric vehicles. 3) Existing bus energy management literature does not systematically consider passenger load variation, which leads to a huge gap between algorithmic optimized result and actual optimal solution. 1.3 Motivation and Contribution Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) and Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) hold a significant potential to improve the information acquisition for the prediction of future traffic information [17]. Besides, Vehicle-to-Cloud (V2C) provides a chance to store and process the massive amount of data, update the structures and parameters of current algorithms, and apply the accurate prediction algorithms and optimal control algorithms that are both computationally expensive. With the powerful cloud cluster, even the DP algorithm will have the potential to execute in real-time. One of the main purposes of this study is to propose a comprehensive framework of hybrid electric city buses EMS, which fully explores and utilizes the benefits of cloud techniques. This paper extends the existing research by discussing the effect of the passenger load and battery aging on the optimal EMS generation. The simulation results show that the passenger loading effect plays a more dominant role than the battery aging effect does on the optimal control strategy generation. Due to several stochastic variables (e.g., weather conditions), a precise passenger load prediction is challenging [18]. There are several works focused on passenger demand prediction on bus networks. [19] propose an interactive multiple model-based pattern hybrid approach to predict short-term passenger demand using historical data and real-time observations with 24.3% absolute percentage error. Besides, three city bus passenger demand prediction models, including time-varying Poisson model, autoregressive integrated moving average model, and sliding window ensemble framework model, are presented in [20] and achieve 78% prediction accuracy. To further improve the passenger load prediction accuracy of existing literature, this paper investigates the method of passenger load prediction using different statistics and machine learning models. Because the inputs (i.e., weather condition, time-of-day, day-of-week, etc.) are not highly corelated, the supervised models shine in these complex modeling problems. This paper also proposes a novel hierarchical EMS of hybrid electric city buses to explore the benefits of V2C and V2I connectivity and cloud computing.  The schematic diagram of using cloud data collection and computation for hybrid-electric buses is presented in Fig. 1. At the cloud level, the prediction of the reference power demand is achieved by collecting the traffic information and predicting passenger load. Then, the planning of the reference power splitting for hybrid electric city buses is generated with the concept of “block MPC” on the cloud by DP method. Running the DP on the cloud solves a highly nonlinear costs function, provides an optimal solution, and saves the computational cost at the vehicle level. On the vehicle side, a rule-based controller with rule update ability is used to handle the error between the predicted and actual power demands with the limited computational cost. In summary, the contributions of this study are as follows: 1) Battery aging effect and passenger load effect on an optimal energy management strategy generation of hybrid city buses are analyzed by using a DP approach with supercapacitor and battery electric models, a Li-ion cycle-life battery degradation model, and an electric bus dynamics model.   2) Passenger load prediction is introduced into the hybrid-electric city buses energy management problem. Four models are investigated for the passenger load prediction, including an average model and three supervised learning models. The contributions of input features to the passenger load prediction are analyzed based on feature importance 

ranking. As the on-board passenger number varies significantly during rush hours and off-peak hours, the passenger load prediction substantially increases the accuracy of power demand profile prediction for EV buses. 3) A cloud-based EMS of hybrid electric city buses considering real-time passenger load prediction is proposed to take advantage of the V2I and V2C connectivity. The performance of minimizing electric consumption cost, battery degradation cost, and the low computational cost on the bus side is guaranteed.    
 Fig. 1. The schematic diagram of cloud data collection and computation for hybrid-electric buses. This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the system modeling and configuration. Section 3 presents methodologies about the passenger load prediction models and EMS. Section 4 first analyzes the aging effect and passenger loading effect, then presents the results of different passenger loading prediction models, compares the three different EMS, and discusses the adapting of the proposed method into wider applications in the end. Section 5 highlights the key conclusions of this paper. 2. Vehicle Configuration and Modeling  In this section, the vehicle dynamics and system configurations of a hybrid electric city bus are presented. Besides, the models of battery and supercapacitor used in this study are discussed.  2.1 Vehicle Model and System Configurations According to the specification of Mercedes-Benz eCitaro [15], the maximum energy capacity, maximum load capacity, and empty vehicle mass of the vehicle model are determined. The model aims to convert speed profiles to power demand profiles for the hybrid energy storage system based on different driving conditions. The vehicle dynamics can be expressed as, 
m!"#$%gfvcos(α)+0.5C&A'ρv(+m!"#$%vdvdt+m!"#$%gvsin(α)=7P)%*+,)η-η*),			P)%*+,)>0P)%*+,)η.,			P)%*+,)≤0(1) 
m!"#$%=m/%"01$%+m2%.3#,C*+4f$#+) (2)  


where v is the vehicle speed, α is the road slop, f$#+) is the passenger load factor, and the rest of the parameters are summarized in Table 1.   Table 1 Parameters and Description of the Electric City Bus [15]. 
Parameter Description Value 
m/%"01$% Empty vehicle mass 13500	kg 
m2%.3#, Average mass of a person 70	kg 
C*+4 Maximum passenger load capacity 145 
E*+4 maximum energy capacity 293	kWh 
g Gravity acceleration 9.8	m/s5 
A' Front area 7.5	m5 
f Rolling resistance coefficient 0.018 
C& Air drag coefficient 0.7 
ρ Air density 1.29	kg/m( 
η- Transmission efficiency 90% 
η*) Electrical machine efficiency 85% 
η. Regenerative braking efficiency 65% 
 According to the required energy capacity of Mercedes-Benz eCitaro, the battery configuration is set up as 217 in series and 7 in parallel in this study. To supply at least 15 seconds of peak power consumption, the supercapacitor pack is set up as 20 in series and 6 in parallel. The topology of the semi-active hybrid energy storage system is presented in Fig. 2. The electric motor drives the rear wheels. A DC/AC converter locates between the electric motor 



[... Remaining pages omitted ...]


---

## Paper: 2001.04643.pdf

Error reading 2001.04643.pdf: Stream has ended unexpectedly


---

## Paper: 1905.06122.pdf

 
 
On the Cost of Security Compliance in Information Systems  David Hofbauer1, Igor Ivkic1,2, Silia Maksuti3,4, Andreas Aldrian5, Markus Tauber3 1Forschung Burgenland, Eisenstadt, Austria 2Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK 3University of Applied Sciences Burgenland, Eisenstadt, Austria 4Luleå University of Technology, Luleå, Sweden 5AVL LIST GmbH  ABSTRACT  The onward development of information and communication technology has led to a new industrial revolution called Industry 4.0. This revolution involves Cyber-Physical Production Systems (CPPS), which consist of intelligent Cyber-Physical Systems that may be able to adapt themselves autonomously in a production environment. At the moment, machines in industrial environments are often not connected to the internet, which thus needs a point-to-point connection to access the device if necessary. Through Industry 4.0, these devices should enable remote access for smart maintenance through a connection to the outside world. However, this connection opens the gate for possible cyber-attacks and thus raises the question about providing security for these environments. Therefore, this paper used an adapted approach based on SixSigma to solve this security problem by investigating security standards. Security requirements were gathered and mapped to controls from well known security standards, formed into a catalog. This catalog includes assessment information to  check how secure a solution for a use case is and also includes a link to an estimation method for implementation cost. Thus this paper’s outcome shows how to make Industry 4.0 use cases secure by fulfilling security standard controls and how to estimate the resulting implementation costs.   Keywords: Industry 4.0, cyber-physical systems, requirements engineering, standard compliance, security, remote access, costs  1.  INTRODUCTION  Through the fourth industrial revolution, called Industry 4.0, which involves Cyber-Physical Production Systems (CPPS), boundaries of companies deteriorate. This is caused by the use of embedded systems and their exchange of data across the entire value chain [1]. Industrial Control Systems (ICS), for example machines with sensors for monitoring manufacturing and process automation within a production company serve as one of the basics for Industry 4.0. These machines have been traditionally built as stand-alone systems, not connected to the outside world and only accessible via point-to-point connection. Thus, maintaining these machines might cause an overhead, since it often includes to physically move them in order to be able to establish a connection. To improve the maintenance, process a transformation to Industry 4.0 [2] could enable remote access, which allows servicing the machine from outside. However, by no longer isolating ICS, the gates for numerous cyber-attacks are opened and thus organizations must understand the potential risks for that. Before opening such a system to the outside world, it is important to know i) what to do in order to be secure and ii) how much it costs to do so. Thus, being able to provide a secure remote access is as important as providing a secure end-to-end communication in Industry 4.0. Since for the latter a lot of research work is done (e.g. in [3], [4], [5], [6]) this paper provides an approach how to make a use case secure for 
Industry 4.0 environments based on security standards and what costs for this security implementation can be estimated.  To achieve this, the approach adapted in this paper is based on SixSigma. Therefore, requirements are gathered and security standards are used to find appropriate controls addressing these requirements. Afterwards these outcomes are mapped into a requirements and controls catalog, which also includes assessment of controls and cost estimation for the implementation of controls. Through an experimental evaluation the usage of this approach’s outcome is done to show it’s applicability and implementation options. The method was adapted with other use cases in mind, which can be used for future work. The contributions of this paper are thus twofold:  • Firstly, an approach of how to design a secure Industry 4.0 application by fulfilling security standard controls and  • secondly, an approach for estimating the implementation costs to build such an application Both should help building and implementing a cost aware and secure application for Industry 4.0. The remainder of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 shows related work concerning the most important topics regarding this paper’s method and how this work can be used or enhanced. Next, section 3 describes the methodology by explaining in detail each step of the used SixSigma approach. Based on that, section 4 shows in a step by step evaluation how the presented approach can be used to provide security and estimate the resulting costs for an industrial use case. Finally, in section 5 we summarize the approach including the evaluation results and give an outline for possible future work.  2.  RELATED WORK  Brettel et al. [1] have investigated the topic Industry 4.0 in general. They have analyzed 8 different research journals concerning the topics individual production, end-to-end engineering in a virtual process chain and production networks through cluster analysis and also held face to face interviews with industry managers. Their results showed from a managerial viewpoint why companies adapt or refuse Industry 4.0 technologies. Their outputs should also help decision makers to assess if transformation to Industry 4.0 within their companies is needed. Further general work [7] has also investigated general Industry 4.0 aspects, more precisely design principles for Industry 4.0 scenarios. Through a quantitative and qualitative text and literature analysis and review, their outcome was the provision of design principles to create a common understanding of the term Industry 4.0 for reasonable scientific discussion and also through a case study the paper can help identify potential use cases for Industry 4.0. Both papers are used to explain basics of Industry 4.0 and also to help identifying important general topics. Our work will also include general explanation for Industry 4.0 and enhance it by prensting an actual Industry 4.0 use case.  Bicaku et al. [3] have proposed a solution to investigate automated standard compliance to assure that individual Industry 4.0 components are secured to interoperate. The basis of that are 

 
 
given sets of security and safety requirements from which measurable indicator points are derived. An initial approach to automate such assessment when components are inter-operating with each other is done by using a monitoring and standard compliance verification framework. Our work builds on this effort of checking security standard compliance and extends it by evaluating a use case scenario for Industry 4.0 by investigating corresponding requirements and thus deriving standards, controls and costs for implementing secure Industry 4.0 applications. Schmittner et al. [8] have investigated the combination of safety and security for trustworthy cyber-physical systems and explain that in the past safety and security were handled as separate issues but now with Industry 4.0 and the interconnection of each device, they must be handled as one part. This combination needs new concepts, techniques and tools, which this special issue addresses. This paper considers this relation in mind and focuses on addressing such security issues.  The papers of the BMWi [5], [6] aim to define a simple and overall position about basic requirements, security challenges and diverse approaches for secure communication in Industry 4.0 environments. They also give a deeper look at the C-I-A triangle (Confidentiality-Integrity-Availability) in Industry 4.0 and authenticity. Our work makes use of these results, especially of CIA and authenticity for deriving requirements and thus standards, controls and costs.  In our previous work [9] we have introduced a new method of measuring the costs of cyber security in smart business. It presents an initial evaluation of the costs of cyber security using a high-level process flow based on Six Sigma. The limitations of this work were that a fictional use case was used, the cost analysis was performed only during design time and it used only a monetary cost metric (Euro). Therefore, this work extends these methodologies of measuring costs of security by evaluating and adapting the approach to the remote access requirements and controls evaluation taxonomy. Furthermore, the derivation of costs can also be considered and adapted to the costs in this work. In [10], Yee provides a summary of related work regarding security metrics by establishing the argument that many security controls and metrics exist, but most of them are not effective or necessary. Afterwards, a definition of possible and not possible controls is provided and furthermore described what the difference between conventional and scientifically/reliably- based security controls is. The procedure of this work can serve for the identification of controls for this paper and extends it by finding usable possible “good” controls for the catalog. Strobl et al. [11] have identified threats, vulnerabilities and their impact of connected cars in their paper. The aim of the paper was to identify blocks of established technologies in a connected car and to consolidate the corresponding threat and vulnerability catalogs relevant for the individual constituent components. These findings are used to estimate the impact on specific system components and subsystems to identify the most crucial components and threats including cloud computing. Our paper was also motivated by this approach of gathering controls for the collection of controls for the requirements and controls catalog including costs. Although the topics vary in our work, the build-up of the catalog can be used as a possible example for the requirements and controls catalog and extends it by adding new approaches. Specifying security requirements is an important task to develop critical information systems. Several standards help to handle security requirements. Thus, Mellado et al. [12] present a common criteria centered and reuse-based process dealing with security requirements at an early stage of e.g. software development in a systematic and new way. This is done by 
providing security resource repository and by integrating them in the early stages of the software lifecycle, unifying concepts of requirements engineering and security engineering. So, they show a standard-based process that deals with the security requirements at early stages of software development but do not concern security and cost in Industry 4.0. In contrast to this work this paper shows an approach of standard-based security requirements engineering actually providing a catalog with requirements adapted to a use case with an intuitive way, so it could be reused and also integrating a cost estimation method. In this work [13] a systematic review of security requirements engineering is performed, which is done by a systematic review of existing literature concerning security requirements engineering. This review was used to show that there are too     less of these important reviews and to provide a framework/ background, in which to appropriately position new research activities. Therefore, this reference provides a summary of all existing information about security requirements in a thorough and unbiased manner. Their main contribution includes precision and reliability of the information and the results obtained. This paper will examine such security requirements engineering sources and will provide a way based on SixSigma to come to security requirements and concerning costs through the help of standards.  3.  RESEARCH METHODOLOGY  This paper focuses on fulfilling security standard controls as well as on the cost for implementing these. For this, the most important requirements and security standard controls for a use case are evaluated and based on that the needed implementation costs are estimated. An approach on how to derive these necessary requirements and controls was formed by asking the questions:  1. What does security in Industry 4.0 mean? – Based on our experience, it means to be compliant to security standards. Thus, requirements are necessary to define what needs to be secured.  2. How can requirements be fulfilled? – By using controls from security standards (= measures, which can be used to assess if something, in this case, is secure). The outcome should be a requirements and controls catalog, which should present the information about security standard controls in such a way that the costs for implementing them can be derived. For this catalog and cost derivation, a taxonomy is needed to develop a method, which can be easily reused. A simple taxonomy can be derived from Six Sigma. The Six Sigma approach was developed by Motorola in the 1980s and is one of the foremost methodical practices for improving customer satisfaction and business processes. The idea behind the approach was to remove causes of errors when detected before they lead to defects in a product or service, which leads to more cost-efficiency. This is achieved by the Six Sigma DMAIC approach, which stands for Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, Control. This approach can be used for many use cases, e.g. identifying cloud security risks [9] or in this case for gathering security controls. Thus, the steps for this approach are shown in Figure 1, in which the numbers in brackets () are used to describe exactly what every step means below the figure. 

 
 
 Figure 1: Methodology based on SixSigma  The goal of this methodology is to put an Industry 4.0 security use case through a hopper to start the DMAIC approach (1). Afterwards the application wanders through every step of the approach: Define (2): Identification of the requirements. Measure (3): Based on the requirements, finding security controls from existing security standards. Analyze (4): Mapping of requirements to controls and including it in a catalog. A set of controls, addressing a specific requirement, is extracted from each standard, e.g. to address requirement 1, control 1 and 2 must be implemented. Furthermore, similar controls per requirement are summarized to control groups. For instance, for guaranteeing a secure connection, two different standards might suggest using a specific encryption algorithm as a security control. The catalog combines these similar controls from the standards in one group. Improve (5): To improve the catalog from the previous step, this phase provides guidance for how to assess implementing these security controls also including an equation for measuring the resulting costs. Control (6): Finally, the control phase uses the requirements and controls catalog to find possible solutions for the presented use case. The goal here is to show i) how well the solutions support the security controls from the used standards and ii) how much it costs to implement missing security controls. After finishing these steps, the outcome is a rating of importance for security requirements as well as a cost implementation estimation and thus a secure and cost aware solution (7). If, during the Control phase no appropriate solutions were found, the DMAIC approach can be done again (1), which is explained in detail in the Control part of section 4. In this paper only one iteration is done because appropriate solutions were found during the Control phase. To show the described methodology in action, the next section presents a remote-access use case concerning Industry 4.0 and its iteration through the defined SixSigma approach.  4.  EVALUATION  In the last section, we presented an approach for evaluating a use case through the help of defined taxonomy based on SixSigma to check if it fulfills security controls and also to estimate possible implementation costs. In this chapter, we will apply the defined methodology step by step, by first introducing the use case and then put it through each DMAIC step.  Use Case In the following section, we demonstrate the first step of our approach through an industrial use case. The use case at the moment concerns measurement devices, which are connected to the company’s local network with strict access rights. Currently, if a measurement device needs maintenance, it has to be serviced by accessing it via a point-to-point connection, which is a long lasting and unnecessarily complex process. Thus, the company decides to add to their measurement devices a remote access functionality. The new remote access use case has the following 
two basic goals: (i) providing an alternative way of accessing the device, and (ii) enabling quick and qualified support and maintenance from outside the company. Through the application of this remote access from outside, new security challenges arise, which this paper addresses through adding a check for standard controls implementation and its cost estimation.  
 Figure 2: Use Case setup  Figure 2 shows the setup of the use case. On the left, there is Location A where the measurement device is in place. The right side of the picture represents another “outside” Location B, where the remote access to the device is needed. The whole solution is based on a message broker where location A is the publisher and location B is the subscriber. In Location A, the measurement device is only accessible through the customer’s local area network therefore a remote access through an IoT Gateway is needed. The IoT Gateway can be seen as a programmed, intelligent switch, which can connect to the internet and establish an encrypted connection to a message broker in another location. A remote access server with a remote access web portal acts as a subscriber to the topic of the IoT Gateway, through which Location B can now directly access the device.  Define The first step of the DMAIC approach is now used to identify requirements. Therefore, requirements were gathered based on CIA (Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability) [5] and extended with necessary requirements based on a use case and industry (which we call CIA extension) but also held on a general level with other use cases in mind. The six identified requirements were: Identification & Authentication [IA], Data Integrity [DI], Data Confidentiality [DC], Encryption [EC], Availability [AV] and Communication Channels [CC].   Measure The next step was to identify controls from appropriate standards based on the requirements and the use case. These can of course vary from use case to use case or company. For the catalog, more than 5 Standards were found most appropriate. These standards have a high international reputation and therefore fit perfectly for the catalog. For the described Industry 4.0 remote access use case the following standards were used (split up in three parts caused by same controls specification): IEC 62443-3-3 [14], ISO/IEC 27000 series (27001 [15], 27002 [16], 27017 [17], 27018 [18]) and NIST SP (800-53 [19], 800-82 [20]). Based on these standards, controls related to the remote access use case were extracted.  Analyze In this phase, requirements, controls and standards were mapped into a catalog and grouped in control groups that contain similar controls. Figure 3 shows the build up of the catalog: gathering requirements by the use of the in section 3 explained CIA extension and mapping controls of standards to them. The look of the catalog will be shown in Table 1 in the Improve phase. f 


 
 
 Figure 3: Buildup of the requirements and controls catalog  
 Figure 4: Controls identified per requirement and standard  Figure 4 shows the distribution of controls within the requirements and controls catalog across the standards. The figure shows the number of controls for each requirement and standard. Through this figure we can identify that e.g. the NIST standards have the highest number of controls concerning [IA] (thin grey line 0-35) whereas for [EC] all standards have a very low number of controls. Nevertheless, [IA] heavily depends on [EC] so dependabilities also need to be considered when implementing controls. But overall it is possible to say that identification & authentication have the most controls. Therefore, the most important requirement and controls that need to be considered for the whole remote access, also in combination with the underlying infrastructure and every part of it is [IA] and thus needs to be well considered before implementation. It also shows that NIST standards have the highest number of controls on most requirements. This Figure 4 is an important output of the paper because it shows a company what is most important for security, in this case, for the remote access use case.  Improve The following Table 1 shows the build-up of the requirements and controls catalog, which also includes the mapping of requirements and controls from the Analyze phase. Moreover, it adds the assessment column and afterwards in equation (1) to (3) it shows the cost estimation method. The original catalog includes over 120 controls and spans over more than 20 pages, which can thus be not included in the paper. Nevertheless, Table 1 should give an overview of how the catalog looks like by showing the control groups for one requirement, Identification & Authentication. The controls for each requirement are grouped to control groups (column ID), which have the same/similar content (column Control IDs shows which controls are in this group). The assessment column then explains what these controls are about and how to assess if a used technology/application to solve a use case implements these security standards controls or not. The build-up of the table is as follows: • Requirement (Req.) • ID within the catalog (ID) = Control group ID • concerning Controls IDs (Control IDs) • Assessment information (Assessment) 
Req. ID Control IDs Assessment IA (Req. n) 1 [IEC-1] [IEC-2] [IEC-3] [IEC-4] [IEC-6] [IEC-8] [ISO-02-4] [ISO-02-5] [ISO-02-6] [ISO-02-8] [ISO-02-10] [NIST-53-1] [NIST-53-2] [NIST-53-4] [NIST-53-5] [NIST-53-18] [NIST-53-22] [NIST-53-23] [NIST-53-31] 
Account & access management, including rights, duties, least privilege and access control. To address these controls following must be implemented in the use case to be in accordance with the standards: -Unified policies -Passwords, tokens, biometrics, etc. -General account management enabled (grouping, least privilege...) 
IA 2 [17 controls]  IA 3 [5 controls]  Table 1: Extract from requirements and controls catalog  Through the assessment column the requirements and controls catalog can thus serve as a controls fulfilment checklist as well as implementation recommendation guide. When assessing use case solutions with the catalog, a point system per control group should be used: Fully applicable gives 1 point, partly applicable 0,5 points and not applicable 0 points. The Control phase will show this assessment in detail. Next, the challenge was to extend Table 1 with a column for an estimation of possible implementation cost. Therefore, the steps for the cost estimation are shown in equations (1), (2) and (3).  
𝑐𝑡=	𝑐%%&'									𝑐%	∈1  𝑐𝑡𝑀𝑎𝑥=𝑚𝑎𝑥({𝑐𝑡',𝑐𝑡1,…,𝑐𝑡3})  IE = 676789:  ct count = number of controls per control group 𝑐% control ctMax count maximum = highest number of controls over all control groups of one requirement IE Implementation Effort, result of equation  The following example Table 2 shows the steps how to come to the estimation of the implementation effort with the example of control group 1, 2 and 3 from requirement [IA] (see Table 1):   Control group 1 Control group 2 Control group 3 1 𝑐𝑡'=	1%&'=19	 𝑐𝑡1=	1%&'=17 𝑐𝑡1=	1%&'=5 2 𝑐𝑡𝑀𝑎𝑥=𝑚𝑎𝑥{19,17,5}=	19 3 IE1= '>'>=1  IE2 = '?'>=0,89 IE3 = @'>= 0,26  Table 2: Cost estimation evaluation example   
Req. Control group ID Nr. of controls per group (ct) Implementation Effort (IE) [IA] 1 19 1 2 17 0,89 3 5 0,26 Table 3: Cost estimation results  To illustrate the cost derivation method results, Table 3 shows all control groups for one requirement, which is in this case again Identification & Authentication. The build-up of this table is thus almost the same as Table 1 but instead of every Control ID it is 
(1) 
(3) 
(2) 

 
 
the number of Control IDs (ct) and instead of the assessment it contains the implementation effort (IE). Equation (1), (2) and (3) above show how the implementation effort is derived. Table 2 shows how the equations are used: Every number of controls per control group (𝑐𝑡) is divided through the highest number of controls over all three groups (ctMax), which is in this case 19 from control group 1, which leads to the implementation effort column of Table 3. Control group 3 in this case has the lowest implementation costs with 0,26, whereas control group 1 and 2 have high implementation costs with its implementation effort 1 and 0,89. The definition of high or low has to be done by the person or company itself that examines a certain use case because implementation effort can vary a lot. This method was used because implementing more controls means more e.g. time or working hours, which lead to higher costs. The method does not bring an exact cost estimation for implementation costs but it should give an overview and a feeling of how high or low the implementation of certain controls will be. This estimation of costs can be done with every requirement from the catalog. Figure 4 shows on an overall scale that Identification & Authentication has the most controls, which has through this approach the highest implementation costs because like Table 3 shows: more controls = higher cost based on the  assumption that the costs for implementing the controls are the same.  Control In this section, the Control phase of the SixSigma DMAIC approach is shown. It was done by evaluating possible platforms for the implementation of the remote access use case by the help of the requirements and controls catalog to show its applicability and to get the best security standard controls implemented solution. Based on the remote access use case and gathered requirements, 5 possible platforms as solution for it were found by using a research taxonomy: The platforms (i) should have at least one security certification, (ii) should already be used in Industry 4.0 use cases (two or more references), (iii) must already include on the website information regarding authentication, encryption & user management, which are key parts of the requirements and (iv) search keywords must include at least 2 of these keywords: remote access, IoT, Industry 4.0.  
  
Figure 5: Overall platform evaluation results  At first these platforms were assessed against the catalog on a superficial, non-implementation level just with the documentation for these solutions. Figure 5 shows the applicability of the solutions for the use case per requirement (done with the point assessment from explained in the Improve phase). Next to the other found solutions (Secomea [21], Teamviewer [22] IoT, Prima Power Remote Care [23] and Endian [24]), Eclipse IoT [25] was the only fully applicable solution, which met the requirements and was then experimentally evaluated in detail. 
 Figure 6: Requirements applicability on Eclipse IoT from 0-1  Eclipse IoT’s solution (Kapua and Kura applications for remote access) were then implemented and again in detail evaluated against the requirements and controls catalog. The main outcome should then show that the overall evaluation must have rather the same outcome than the detailed one concerning one specific platform. The point evaluation for Figure 6 is the same as the one used for Figure 5. But here the control groups itself have been investigated in more detail through a setup, therefore the data ranges more. The most important security requirement of the platform is according to Figure 4 Identification & Authentication, which Eclipse IoT nearly fulfills except the policies, which need to be established by the company itself in advance, thus not part of this evaluation. Also, Encryption is well-included in Eclipse IoT, which is a very important requirement because it is also a part of all other gathered requirements. All 6 requirements are partly or fully fulfilled and have about 5 out of 6 achievable points, which is nearly the same outcome of the overall evaluation and thus shows the applicability of the requirements and controls catalog as a checklist. However, if the goal is to fulfill all requirements, the outcome of this phase provides the following three implementation possibilities: (i) if the missing parts have to be developed, the resulting costs could be estimated by using the presented method from the Improve phase; (ii) two or more solutions, which by themselves only partly fulfill the requirements, might fulfill all requirements when being combined; (iii) in case (i) and (ii) do not apply, another iteration of the DMAIC process (including other standards) could provide additional solutions.  Results The main contribution of the paper is the approach shown in Figure 1. Based on this general approach, Industry 4.0 use cases can be assessed, security controls found and resulting implementation cost evaluated. In this regard the approach provides the following two main outcomes: (i) Figure 4 could be used to rate the requirements by their importance, where more controls are considered more important than less. (ii) This rating further leads to equations (1), (2) and (3), which allow to estimate the costs for implementing the identified security controls. Further results include Table 1, which shows the catalog for checking if an application fulfills certain controls. Also, the Control phase shows results by presenting the applicability of the catalog on applications and also by showing appropriate solutions for the remote access use case implementation.  5.  CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  This paper focuses on an approach on how to build secure and cost aware Industry 4.0 application. The first focus for achieving this was on investigating security. Based on the SixSigma DMAIC approach, security requirements were defined and 




[... Remaining pages omitted ...]


---

